ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES 
 
Rules & Regulations 
(​For Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards​) 
 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
   
1 
 
Table 11.3​ Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester 
Description  Minimum number of credits to be earned 
GEN/OBC/GEN-EWS  SC/ST/PD 
Minimum for Continuation  18  14 
 
If a student does not meet the criteria specified in Table 11.3, he/she may opt to restart the                                   
programme or else their registration will be terminated. The restart will be permitted only once.                             
Dean (UG/PG) should propose a guideline for mentoring the student under probation. Dean of                           
Students should also involve in the process.  
If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then the credits earned                               
and semesters registered till that point will not be counted towards the graduation                         
requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript. 
 
11.5.1 Criteria to put a student on Academic Probation​: 
●From the third semester onward if a student fails to earn a minimum of 12 credits in                                   
any registered semester, then he/she will be placed on academic probation. 
●A student placed on probation shall be monitored, including mandatory attendance in                       
classes, special tutorials and mentoring. Mentoring would comprise structured guidance                   
under a senior student. 
●If a student is on academic probation for two consecutive registered semesters, then                         
his/her registration will be terminated. 
●If a student earns less than or equal to 15 credits in any registered semester a warning                                 
shall be given to him/her and intimation be sent to the parents. 
●The two semesters allowed for the academic probation should be counted towards the                         
total duration allowed for the program. 
 
11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes 
The students of dual-degree programmes will be considered for award of institute research/                         
teaching assistantship if they have earned 150 credits by the end of the eighth semester. Only                               
those students who have either qualified GATE or have a CGPA more than 8.0 will be eligible for                                   
this assistantship. The assistantship will be provided for a maximum period of 14 months                           
beginning from the summer semester following the eighth semester, provided the student is                         
registered for M.Tech. Major Project in that semester. A student availing assistantship will be                           
required to provide 8 hours of assistance per week besides his/ her normal academic work. For                               
continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5.  
 
A student receiving assistantship will be eligible for a total of 30 days leave during the                               
14-month period. He/she will not be entitled to mid-semester breaks, winter and summer                         
vacations. 
 
12. UG REGISTRATION 
 
12.1 Summer Courses 
Students can register for courses during summer up to a maximum of Eight Credits on payment                               
of registration fee at prescribed rates. The summer term is not a regular semester and only                               
academically deficient students (who have low CGPA and/or fewer credits than advised by the                           
curriculum till that point in the programme), Major students, Minor students, and such students                           
 
18 
who are short of maximum Eight Credits to complete all graduation requirements may register                           
during this period.  
 
For core courses, only students with failed backlog may be considered for summer registration.                           
In case any vacancies are left in the courses being offered during the summer term once the                                 
requirements of the above categories of students are fulfilled, other students may register for                           
these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance.  
 
The total number of contact hours for the courses remains the same as that during the regular                                 
semesters, and therefore the courses run at an accelerated pace. The evaluation and grading                           
patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters. 
 
12.2 Limits on Registration  
 
●An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester.  
●The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25.  
●An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits 
per semester for independent-study or self-study course 
 
12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load 
Under-load: Students who are identified as academically deficient (on academic probation)                     
may register for a maximum of 16 credits. 
 
Over-load: ​Overloading may be allowed only for students who are not on academic probation                           
and satisfy one of the following criteria: 
●Students are allowed to overload only when they need 70 or less additional credits to                             
complete all the requirements of their programme. 
●Beyond the second semester, any student with a CGPA of 7.5 or higher may be allowed                               
to overload.  
 
12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. 
Tech. dual degree Programme 
A B.Tech. student having opted for major/minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end                               
of the seventh semester and fulfilling requirements mentioned earlier may be allowed to switch                           
to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the                               
eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the                             
institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. All such                             
changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 
 
13.  EVALUATION OF SPECIAL UG ONLY COURSES 
 
13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation 
●DUGC will appoint a committee for B.Tech. Project evaluation. The committee will ensure                         
that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.  
●The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project.  
●DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students. 
 
19 
23.3 Semester Withdrawal  
May be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of                             
four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. 
In all such cases, the fellowship will be stopped with immediate effect and it will be continued                                 
for only after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve and intimate Office of                             
Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a                               
semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on                         
the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the                           
programme for the student. 
 
23.4 Academic Leave  
Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as 
1. Fieldwork  
2. Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library 
3. Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ 
4. Attending conferences/workshops/summer/winter schools/symposium  
5. Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech./Ph.D. supervision 
6. Collaborative work for a specific problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme as                         
indicated in  his research proposal 
7. Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with a sister institution in India or                               
abroad 
 
All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC/DRC/IRC before the leave is granted.                             
SRC/DRC/IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowship during                   
academic leave. 
●A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave. 
●A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester as                             
certified by SRC and approved by DRC. 
 
24. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted                   
under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following: 
 
24.1 M.Sc. Program 
Merit-cum-Means fellowship as per Institute norms.  
 
24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program  
A student having completed minimum credit requirements of an M.Sc. program at the end of                             
the second year with  
(a) CGPA>=8  
OR 
(b) have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. 
 
24.3 M.Tech. Program 
A regular M.Tech. student with GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. A                               
student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines.  
 
35 
26.1.5 ​Composition of  Interdisciplinary Research Committee (IRC) 
The IRC will consist of all coordinators of IDRPs and Senior Professor/Associate Professor as the                             
chairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean (Academics). The chairman of IRC will be a                                 
member of AC. One of the IDRP co-ordinators would be convenor of the committee. The tenure                               
for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean (Academics). 
 
26.2 Change of Research Supervisor 
Change of supervisor (s), under exceptional circumstances, shall be permitted by Dean                       
(Academics) on the recommendation of the DRC/IRC after obtaining the consent of (i) the                           
student (ii) the present supervisor (s) and (iii) the proposed supervisor(s). If required,                         
realignment of student’s research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC/IRC. 
 
26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC)  
26.3.1 Composition of SRC  
●The SRC will normally consist of supervisor(s) and three other faculty members                       
conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the                           
department (maybe outside the Institute also).  
●A Student Research Committee (SRC) for the candidate shall be proposed by the                         
supervisor(s), recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by Dean (Academics).  
●The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and                         
the supervisor(s) will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean                           
(Academics). 
●The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester. 
●Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the                         
DRC/IRC to Dean (Academics) for record.  
●Chairman and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the                         
thesis. 
●The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the                         
completion of the program. 
 
26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM) 
The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the                                 
SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon (i) Annual Progress Report and (ii)                                   
A Poster Presentation open to all. SRC will award a Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory grade based                         
upon (i) and (ii). Two consecutive Non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of                         
registration.  
For implementational convenience, academic calendar must indicate two days in a year for                         
conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars. Following the groupings of students                       
and scheduling guidelines are suggested  
1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During 1st July to 30th September of the                               
year. 
2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December to 28th February of the                               
year.  
The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements. 
Each semester “Satisfactory” progress or “Unsatisfactory” progress will be reported by the                       
supervisor(s) through the SRC for record.   
Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee and                             
approved by Dean (academics) 
 
38 
 
26.5​ ​Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student 
The following four components together will constitute qualifier (candidacy) requirements for a                       
Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship. 
1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1  
2. Cleared comprehensive examination 
3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research  
4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal  
 
The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements                         
before the beginning of the fifth semester of his/her registration in the Ph. D. program and                               
in any case ​not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in                               
the Ph. D. program. Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before                           
the beginning of the seventh semester. 
 
26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student 
●The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the                         
student and the breadth of his/her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the                             
field of research.  
●The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination                   
Committee of the Department/IDRP. 
●The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers. 
●Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination.                       
Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The                           
course content of these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the                           
Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the same                           
as courses offered by the department; it must be designed to test the breadth of the                               
knowledge in that area. 
●The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement for a particular                             
student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments. 
●The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student                     
within ​two weeks​ of SRC formation.  
●All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can                             
coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may                       
decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days.  
●A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he/she has completed                       
the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement. 
●If the performance of the Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the                           
first attempt is not satisfactory, he/she will be given one more opportunity to appear                           
within six months of the first attempt. 
●For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in                       
all papers. 
 
Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students: 
●Ph.D. : within 3 semesters 
●Direct Ph.D. and MTech - PhD  Dual Degree: within 5 semesters 
 
26.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA) 
Every Ph.D. student is required to give a general seminar in the Department covering the State                               
of Art of the area of research. The presentation must also include patent landscaping of the                               
 
39 
area. The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory                             
grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal.  
 
26.5.3 Research Proposal 
Research proposal (report + presentation) will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion                         
of SOTA. The research proposal must include representative research work equivalent to                       
research work worth 16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance of the                                 
candidate. 
 
26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree 
A student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D.                               
degree after he/she has completed the qualifier requirements for the degree. Only such                         
students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis. 
 
26.7 Relaxation in  M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program 
●M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualifier                   
requirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years can also                         
convert into part-time/external Ph.D. student and exit with M.Tech degree if all                       
conditions for part-time/external conversion are satisfied. 
●The renewal of their registration for every semester however, will be considered only if                           
SRC finds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends the continuance of                       
registration. 
 
26.8 Cancellation of Registration 
●The registration of a student whose progress is not found to be satisfactory by the SRC                               
or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation. 
●The registration of a student who has not submitted his/her thesis before the end of the                               
maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation. 
 
26.9 Synopsis 
●Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door                       
assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC. 
●The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and                               
quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis. 
●Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsis                           
report. 
●Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within ​six months of the open seminar                           
date. If required, an extension of ​three months may be permitted by Dean (Academics)                           
on the recommendation of SRC. 
●If the synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specified period, the student will be                               
asked to present the synopsis again. 
●On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in                       
4.6.1, the comprehensive examination, the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis,                       
the student shall submit the requisite copies of the synopsis of his/her research work in                             
the required format through the supervisor(s) and HoD to the Academic Section for                         
consideration of the SRC. 
 
40 
●The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication                           
in a refereed journal/refereed conference (SRC members are required to certify the                       
quality of journals/conference). 
 
26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation   
The supervisor(s) shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting of at least four Faculty                             
Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in                                 
which the student undertook research. For selecting an examiner, the following guidelines                       
should be followed 
●The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience; 
●No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and 
●The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute.  
●Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners​. 
●The Chairman, Senate, shall select ​minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of                         
which at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of these                             
examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. ​In addition, SRC and                           
Supervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis. 
●The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor(s) and the                           
external examiner.   
●One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense. 
●The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months                               
from the date of receipt of the Thesis. 
●If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean                             
(Academics) shall request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student.   
●If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean                                 
(Academics) shall report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration.                       
The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under special                         
circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D.                         
program. 
●If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be                                 
awarded by the Institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the                             
Ph.D. program.  
●If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis, the student shall resubmit the Thesis                             
after the revision within a prescribed time period of ​6 months in ​consultation with the                             
Supervisor(s).   
●When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the                           
Thesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the                     
suggestions/corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the                     
Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis. 
●The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor(s), the Examiner from within                     
India and other Faculty Members (quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor(s) and                       
an external examiner), who participated in the Comprehensive Examination of the                     
student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their                         
recommendation, Dean (Academics) shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award                     
of Ph.D. degree to the student. 
 
27. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS 
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the                               
requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below. 
 
41 
27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement  
Table 27.1​ Minimum residential requirement  
S.No.  Program   Qualifications at the time of joining the 
Program 
Minimum Duration 
(in semesters) of 
Residence  
1.  M.Sc.   All qualifying degrees  4 
2.  M.Sc.-M.Tech. 
Dual Degree 
All qualifying degrees  7 
3.  M.Tech. Programs 
  Full-time 
Regular 
/Sponsored 
All qualifying degrees  3 
  Part-time  All qualifying degrees  0 
  Executive  All qualifying degrees  1 
4.  Ph. D. Programs 
  Full-time Regular 
  Engineering 
discipline  
M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an 
Engineering discipline 
2  
M.Sc. degree  in a Science discipline  5  
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering)  in an 
Engineering discipline 
5 
  Science, 
Humanities or 
Social Science 
discipline  
M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, 
Humanities or Social Science discipline 
2 
  Part-time  All qualifying degrees  0 
  External  All qualifying degrees  1 
 
27.2 Academic  
The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned                             
the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for                                   
M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for                           
Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09. 
 
27.3 No Dues Clearance 
Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as                           
deemed necessary by Dean (Academics) 
 
27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action  
The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is                             
any case of indiscipline pending against her/him.  
 
42 
27.5 Award of Degrees  
27.5.1 Provisional Certificate 
A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, can                             
be provided with a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of                               
Chairman, Senate. 
 
27.5.2 Degree Certificate 
A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, is                             
recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate                               
degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its                               
approval.  
 
28. AMENDMENTS 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the                         
right to modify/amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes                       
at IIT-Jodhpur. 
 
43 