ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES 
 
Rules & Regulations 
(​For Students enrolled from July 2019 onwards​) 
 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
   
1 
 
Table 11.3​ Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester 
Description  Minimum number of credits to be earned 
GEN/OBC/GEN-EWS  SC/ST/PD 
Minimum for Continuation  18  14 
 
If a student does not meet the criteria specified in Table 11.3, he/she may opt to restart the                                   
programme or else their registration will be terminated. The restart will be permitted only once.                             
Dean (UG/PG) should propose a guideline for mentoring the student under probation. Dean of                           
Students should also involve in the process.  
If a student chooses to restart after the first two registered semesters, then the credits earned                               
and semesters registered till that point will not be counted towards the graduation                         
requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript. 
 
11.5.1 Criteria to put a student on Academic Probation​: 
●From the third semester onward if a student fails to earn a minimum of 12 credits in                                   
any registered semester, then he/she will be placed on academic probation. 
●A student placed on probation shall be monitored, including mandatory attendance in                       
classes, special tutorials and mentoring. Mentoring would comprise structured guidance                   
under a senior student. 
●If a student is on academic probation for two consecutive registered semesters, then                         
his/her registration will be terminated. 
●If a student earns less than or equal to 15 credits in any registered semester a warning                                 
shall be given to him/her and intimation be sent to the parents. 
●The two semesters allowed for the academic probation should be counted towards the                         
total duration allowed for the program. 
 
11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes 
The students of dual-degree programmes will be considered for award of institute research/                         
teaching assistantship if they have earned 150 credits by the end of the eighth semester. Only                               
those students who have either qualified GATE or have a CGPA more than 8.0 will be eligible for                                   
this assistantship. The assistantship will be provided for a maximum period of 14 months                           
beginning from the summer semester following the eighth semester, provided the student is                         
registered for M.Tech. Major Project in that semester. A student availing assistantship will be                           
required to provide 8 hours of assistance per week besides his/ her normal academic work. For                               
continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5.  
 
A student receiving assistantship will be eligible for a total of 30 days leave during the                               
14-month period. He/she will not be entitled to mid-semester breaks, winter and summer                         
vacations. 
 
12. UG REGISTRATION 
 
12.1 Summer Courses 
Students can register for courses during summer up to a maximum of Eight Credits on payment                               
of registration fee at prescribed rates. The summer term is not a regular semester and only                               
academically deficient students (who have low CGPA and/or fewer credits than advised by the                           
curriculum till that point in the programme), Major students, Minor students, and such students                           
 
18 
who are short of maximum Eight Credits to complete all graduation requirements may register                           
during this period.  
 
For core courses, only students with failed backlog may be considered for summer registration.                           
In case any vacancies are left in the courses being offered during the summer term once the                                 
requirements of the above categories of students are fulfilled, other students may register for                           
these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance.  
 
The total number of contact hours for the courses remains the same as that during the regular                                 
semesters, and therefore the courses run at an accelerated pace. The evaluation and grading                           
patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters. 
 
12.2 Limits on Registration  
 
●An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester.  
●The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25.  
●An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits 
per semester for independent-study or self-study course 
 
12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load 
Under-load: Students who are identified as academically deficient (on academic probation)                     
may register for a maximum of 16 credits. 
 
Over-load: ​Overloading may be allowed only for students who are not on academic probation                           
and satisfy one of the following criteria: 
●Students are allowed to overload only when they need 70 or less additional credits to                             
complete all the requirements of their programme. 
●Beyond the second semester, any student with a CGPA of 7.5 or higher may be allowed                               
to overload.  
 
12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M. 
Tech. dual degree Programme 
A B.Tech. student having opted for major/minor specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end                               
of the seventh semester and fulfilling requirements mentioned earlier may be allowed to switch                           
to B.Tech.- M. Tech. dual degree program in the chosen specialization at the beginning of the                               
eighth semester. The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved programmes of the                             
institute. All requirements of M.Tech. Degree will be applicable to all such students. All such                             
changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate. 
 
13.  EVALUATION OF SPECIAL UG ONLY COURSES 
 
13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation 
●DUGC will appoint a committee for B.Tech. Project evaluation. The committee will ensure                         
that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.  
●The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project.  
●DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students. 
 
19 
23.3 Semester Withdrawal  
May be applicable in unforeseen circumstances or for medical reasons. Absence for a period of                             
four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester. 
In all such cases, the fellowship will be stopped with immediate effect and it will be continued                                 
for only after the student rejoins the institute. DRC can approve and intimate Office of                             
Academics regarding the leave of the student for records. In case, the leave extends beyond a                               
semester, it can only be approved through the Academic Committee. Semester withdrawal on                         
the medical ground will not be counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the                           
programme for the student. 
 
23.4 Academic Leave  
Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as 
1. Fieldwork  
2. Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library 
3. Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ 
4. Attending conferences/workshops/summer/winter schools/symposium  
5. Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech./Ph.D. supervision 
6. Collaborative work for a specific problem related to his ongoing Ph.D programme as                         
indicated in  his research proposal 
7. Exchange program – as part of an exchange program with a sister institution in India or                               
abroad 
 
All such requests must be evaluated and approved by SRC/DRC/IRC before the leave is granted.                             
SRC/DRC/IRC must also make recommendations regarding continuation of fellowship during                   
academic leave. 
●A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave. 
●A student during academic leave can earn a maximum of 12 credits per semester as                             
certified by SRC and approved by DRC. 
 
24. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted                   
under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following: 
 
24.1 M.Sc. Program 
Merit-cum-Means fellowship as per Institute norms.  
 
24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program  
A student having completed minimum credit requirements of an M.Sc. program at the end of                             
the second year with  
(a) CGPA>=8  
OR 
(b) have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. 
 
24.3 M.Tech. Program 
A regular M.Tech. student with GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund. A                               
student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines.  
 
35 
26.1.5 ​Composition of  Interdisciplinary Research Committee (IRC) 
The IRC will consist of all coordinators of IDRPs and Senior Professor/Associate Professor as the                             
chairman of the IRC will be nominated by Dean (Academics). The chairman of IRC will be a                                 
member of AC. One of the IDRP co-ordinators would be convenor of the committee. The tenure                               
for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean (Academics). 
 
26.2 Change of Research Supervisor 
Change of supervisor (s), under exceptional circumstances, shall be permitted by Dean                       
(Academics) on the recommendation of the DRC/IRC after obtaining the consent of (i) the                           
student (ii) the present supervisor (s) and (iii) the proposed supervisor(s). If required,                         
realignment of student’s research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC/IRC. 
 
26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC)  
26.3.1 Composition of SRC  
●The SRC will normally consist of supervisor(s) and three other faculty members                       
conversant with the field of research with at least one member external to the                           
department (maybe outside the Institute also).  
●A Student Research Committee (SRC) for the candidate shall be proposed by the                         
supervisor(s), recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by Dean (Academics).  
●The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and                         
the supervisor(s) will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean                           
(Academics). 
●The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester. 
●Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the                         
DRC/IRC to Dean (Academics) for record.  
●Chairman and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the                         
thesis. 
●The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the                         
completion of the program. 
 
26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM) 
The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the                                 
SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon (i) Annual Progress Report and (ii)                                   
A Poster Presentation open to all. SRC will award a Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory grade based                         
upon (i) and (ii). Two consecutive Non-satisfactory grades will lead to termination of                         
registration.  
For implementational convenience, academic calendar must indicate two days in a year for                         
conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars. Following the groupings of students                       
and scheduling guidelines are suggested  
1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During 1st July to 30th September of the                               
year. 
2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December to 28th February of the                               
year.  
The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements. 
Each semester “Satisfactory” progress or “Unsatisfactory” progress will be reported by the                       
supervisor(s) through the SRC for record.   
Any situation in exception to the above will be processed by the academic committee and                             
approved by Dean (academics) 
 
38 
 
26.5​ ​Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student 
The following four components together will constitute qualifier (candidacy) requirements for a                       
Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship. 
1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1  
2. Cleared comprehensive examination 
3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research  
4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal  
 
The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements                         
before the beginning of the fifth semester of his/her registration in the Ph. D. program and                               
in any case ​not later than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in                               
the Ph. D. program. Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before                           
the beginning of the seventh semester. 
 
26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student 
●The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the                         
student and the breadth of his/her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the                             
field of research.  
●The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination                   
Committee of the Department/IDRP. 
●The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers. 
●Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination.                       
Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The                           
course content of these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the                           
Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive examination will not be the same                           
as courses offered by the department; it must be designed to test the breadth of the                               
knowledge in that area. 
●The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement for a particular                             
student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments. 
●The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student                     
within ​two weeks​ of SRC formation.  
●All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can                             
coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may                       
decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days.  
●A student can appear in the comprehensive examination before he/she has completed                       
the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement. 
●If the performance of the Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the                           
first attempt is not satisfactory, he/she will be given one more opportunity to appear                           
within six months of the first attempt. 
●For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in                       
all papers. 
 
Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students: 
●Ph.D. : within 3 semesters 
●Direct Ph.D. and MTech - PhD  Dual Degree: within 5 semesters 
 
26.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA) 
Every Ph.D. student is required to give a general seminar in the Department covering the State                               
of Art of the area of research. The presentation must also include patent landscaping of the                               
 
39 
area. The presentation will be evaluated by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory                             
grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal.  
 
26.5.3 Research Proposal 
Research proposal (report + presentation) will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion                         
of SOTA. The research proposal must include representative research work equivalent to                       
research work worth 16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance of the                                 
candidate. 
 
26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree 
A student enrolled in the Ph.D. program is formally admitted to the candidacy for the Ph.D.                               
degree after he/she has completed the qualifier requirements for the degree. Only such                         
students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis. 
 
26.7 Relaxation in  M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program 
●M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree students who have successfully completed all qualifier                   
requirements, under exceptional conditions, as approved by SRC after 3 years can also                         
convert into part-time/external Ph.D. student and exit with M.Tech degree if all                       
conditions for part-time/external conversion are satisfied. 
●The renewal of their registration for every semester however, will be considered only if                           
SRC finds their progress to be satisfactory and recommends the continuance of                       
registration. 
 
26.8 Cancellation of Registration 
●The registration of a student whose progress is not found to be satisfactory by the SRC                               
or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation. 
●The registration of a student who has not submitted his/her thesis before the end of the                               
maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation. 
 
26.9 Synopsis 
●Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door                       
assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC. 
●The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and                               
quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis. 
●Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along with the pre-synopsis                           
report. 
●Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within ​six months of the open seminar                           
date. If required, an extension of ​three months may be permitted by Dean (Academics)                           
on the recommendation of SRC. 
●If the synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specified period, the student will be                               
asked to present the synopsis again. 
●On satisfactory completion of the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in                       
4.6.1, the comprehensive examination, the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis,                       
the student shall submit the requisite copies of the synopsis of his/her research work in                             
the required format through the supervisor(s) and HoD to the Academic Section for                         
consideration of the SRC. 
 
40 
●The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication                           
in a refereed journal/refereed conference (SRC members are required to certify the                       
quality of journals/conference). 
 
26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation   
The supervisor(s) shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting of at least four Faculty                             
Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in                                 
which the student undertook research. For selecting an examiner, the following guidelines                       
should be followed 
●The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience; 
●No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and 
●The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute.  
●Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners​. 
●The Chairman, Senate, shall select ​minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of                         
which at least one should be an examiner from outside India. The consent of these                             
examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them. ​In addition, SRC and                           
Supervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis. 
●The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor(s) and the                           
external examiner.   
●One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense. 
●The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months                               
from the date of receipt of the Thesis. 
●If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean                             
(Academics) shall request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student.   
●If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean                                 
(Academics) shall report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration.                       
The Chairman, Senate, will refer the Thesis to a third examiner under special                         
circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D.                         
program. 
●If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be                                 
awarded by the Institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the                             
Ph.D. program.  
●If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis, the student shall resubmit the Thesis                             
after the revision within a prescribed time period of ​6 months in ​consultation with the                             
Supervisor(s).   
●When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the                           
Thesis, or after the resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the                     
suggestions/corrections given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the                     
Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis. 
●The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor(s), the Examiner from within                     
India and other Faculty Members (quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor(s) and                       
an external examiner), who participated in the Comprehensive Examination of the                     
student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their                         
recommendation, Dean (Academics) shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award                     
of Ph.D. degree to the student. 
 
27. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS 
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the                               
requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below. 
 
41 
27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement  
Table 27.1​ Minimum residential requirement  
S.No.  Program   Qualifications at the time of joining the 
Program 
Minimum Duration 
(in semesters) of 
Residence  
1.  M.Sc.   All qualifying degrees  4 
2.  M.Sc.-M.Tech. 
Dual Degree 
All qualifying degrees  7 
3.  M.Tech. Programs 
  Full-time 
Regular 
/Sponsored 
All qualifying degrees  3 
  Part-time  All qualifying degrees  0 
  Executive  All qualifying degrees  1 
4.  Ph. D. Programs 
  Full-time Regular 
  Engineering 
discipline  
M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an 
Engineering discipline 
2  
M.Sc. degree  in a Science discipline  5  
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering)  in an 
Engineering discipline 
5 
  Science, 
Humanities or 
Social Science 
discipline  
M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science, 
Humanities or Social Science discipline 
2 
  Part-time  All qualifying degrees  0 
  External  All qualifying degrees  1 
 
27.2 Academic  
The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements if she/he has earned                             
the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for                                   
M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for                           
Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09. 
 
27.3 No Dues Clearance 
Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all concerned sections as                           
deemed necessary by Dean (Academics) 
 
27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action  
The student shall not be considered to have completed the Academic Requirements if there is                             
any case of indiscipline pending against her/him.  
 
42 
27.5 Award of Degrees  
27.5.1 Provisional Certificate 
A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, can                             
be provided with a provisional certificate by the office of Dean (Academics) on the approval of                               
Chairman, Senate. 
 
27.5.2 Degree Certificate 
A student, who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4, is                             
recommended by the Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate                               
degree in the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its                               
approval.  
 
28. AMENDMENTS 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the                         
right to modify/amend, without notice, Rules and Regulations of the Postgraduate programmes                       
at IIT-Jodhpur. 
 
43 





IIT Jodhpur Home Page
  A+ A A-   

   Sitemap
Home
People
Recruitment
Research
Academic Programs
Laboratories
Contact
Welcome image in BB

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to the Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur, established in 2009 offers a B.Tech. program in Bioengineering, an M.Tech. and M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree programs in Bioscience & Bioengineering. Our programs are uniquely designed to inspire innovations in biotechnology, engineering, and medicine from an understanding of  biological systems.  This capacity building is assuming importance in the present times for providing solutions to societal problems in trans-disciplinary frameworks. A major focus is on neurosciences and neurodegenerative disorders, mechanistic biology, environmental and medical microbiology, computational biology, precision health, and bioprospecting for novel molecules and bio-actives from natural resources of the Thar ecoregion. We also offer a competitive Ph.D. program to inculcate scientific temper, independent thinking, and skillsets for scientific entrepreneurship. We encourage and provide avenues for the participation of bioengineering graduates with diverse engineering disciplines to develop technologies for:

Affordable and Smart Healthcare
Clean Environment
Precision Medicine and Health
Sustainable and Affordable Energy
Faculties at the department with wide-ranging expertise,  conduct fundamental and translational research in focus areas that are contemporary and aligned to major sustainable development goals. We are passionate about research and actively communicate our science through regular outreach programs.

outreach programs

Message from the Head of the Department
Message from the Head of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Assoc. Prof. Neha Jain (Acting Head BSBE)

Email: head_bb@iitj.ac.in, Phone: 0291 280 1201

Bioscience and Bioengineering are pivotal to India's growth. driving innovation and advancing technology in healthcare. Agriculture and environmental sustainability. The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur plays a key role in implementing diverse advanced biological research areas within these fields. with a strong focus on fostering research and development (R&D) and entrepreneurship.

By offering a multidisciplinary platform that integrates cutting-edge research in drug discovery, genomics, and affordable and integrative precision healthcare solutions. Big Data Biology and bioinformatics. In addition. The department actively promotes entrepreneurship by providing incubation support, facilitating industry collaborations, and encouraging the growth of startup ventures in biosciences.

With access to advanced research facilities and guidance from expert faculty members, students can transform their ideas into practical, marketable solutions, benefiting industries such as healthcare, agriculture, and biomanufacturing.

BSBE Department, IIT Jodhpur, emphasizes interdisciplinary research in the near future, which may also align with national initiatives like the BioE3 policy to promote R&D, commercialization, and the establishment of bioeconomy hubs. The curriculum is thoughtfully designed to meet the diverse aspirations of students entering the fields of biosciences and bioengineering. This approach not only strengthens the academic peers ecosystem but also creates employment opportunities and enhances societal well-being.

Announcement
View all announcement
Events
View all events



Home
People
Recruitment
Research
Academic Programs
Events
Laboratories
Facilities
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Chemistry
PhD admission with key Research Area

Welcome to Department of Chemistry & Head's Message
A warm welcome to the Department of Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur, which was established in 2015. Since the inception, the department has taken major strides forward in teaching, research and technology development. Our department offers a variety of academic programs including M.Sc. (2 Years), M.Sc. (Chemistry)-M.Tech. (Materials Engineering) with Specialization, BS in Chemistry with Specialization (4 years), and Ph.D. programs. We also provide core and elective courses in chemistry and related fields for undergraduate B.Tech. engineering students. The department offers Chemistry courses for 4-year Integrated B.Sc.-B.Ed. Program (ITEP), which is in alignment with NEP 2020 to support teacher preparation and foster professional development.

Besides teaching, the Department is striving to be acknowledged for excellence in research and technology. Our goal is to foster an environment where everyone can thrive, reach their full potential, and contribute to cutting-edge scientific advancements. We have the latest state of the art basic teaching laboratories and several thematic research laboratories. Our current faculty strength is 19 and they are carrying out research activities in all major areas of chemical sciences, namely, organic synthesis and catalysis, chemical biology, main group chemistry and organometallics, nanomaterials, spectroscopy and chemical dynamics, biophysical chemistry and computational chemistry. The cutting-edge research in the thrust areas by our faculty members are published in international peer-reviewed journals of well-repute. In short IIT Jodhpur Chemistry department is where Chemistry meets Technology through Collaboration, Communication and Cooperation. I encourage the future aspirants to get enrolled at IIT Jodhpur and wish you all the very best in your future endeavours. Thank you.

The thrust areas in which research is being actively carried are given below.

The thrust areas in which research is being actively carried 	

Quick Links
Ph.D Admission January 2026 Apply Now
Course Type For Online Registration Of M.Sc. Program   (470 KB)
LHB Booking
CDIF Equipment Booking
Department Seminar Hall Booking
External users: sample analysis services   (9.8 MB)
Latest News
View all news

Latest Events
View all events



Home
People
Recruitment
Research
Academic Programs
Students
Corporate Relations
Laboratories
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Chemical Engineering
Home Page Chemical Engineering

Welcome To The Department of Chemical Engineering
Translation of molecular information into discovery of new products and processes with Industry 4.0+ 
Vision & Mission of the Department
To become a globally recognized department of chemical engineering through its contribution in emerging and demand-driven areas with multidisciplinary approach.   

The Department of Chemical Engineering offers under-graduate (B.Tech.) and post-graduate (M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D.) programs in chemical engineering. Through the academic programs, the department is making a conscious effort to establish itself as a leading institute in the new genre of chemical engineering education. The program involves traditional courses, emerging areas and specialisations such as process engineering intelligence, molecular engineering and sustainability.

In line with the new education policy, B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering) students will have unique opportunity and flexibility for:

Minor in (a)Management (b)Entrepreneurship (c)Data Science
Five year B.Tech.+M.Tech./ MBA
One year Engineering Innovation opportunity


Traditionally, chemical engineering teaching focuses on subjects like material and energy balance, transport phenomena, thermodynamics, mass transfer, heat transfer, fluid mechanics, chemical reaction engineering, numerical analysis, computational systems, biotechnology, petroleum-petrochemicals, polymers and safety engineering. With the advent of the era of Industry 4.0 in chemical companies, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), data analytics, internet of things (IoT), molecular engineering, nano-composites; the discipline is being transformed by the incorporation of new emerging technologies and demand-driven areas.

The department is keen on collaboration with industry and academia worldwide. At present, Chemical Engineering Department is sharing its expertise with the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation (DDWS), Ministry of Jal Shakti; Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Ministry of Defence; International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) etc. Department has signed MoU with the industries for providing consultancy services. Department is also actively involved in Scientific Social Responsibility (SSR) through Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) and other societal initiatives.

Department has research interest in core and emerging areas; and is looking for faculty members in different areas of chemical engineering. Prospective candidates are encouraged to visit our recruitment page and apply.

Latest News
View all news
Latest Events
View all events



Home
People
Recruitment
Research
Academic Programs
Specialization
Student
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
CricketM.Tech. feature in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 

Welcome to the Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
logo
The rapidly urbanizing society and increasing quality of life demand reliable and intelligent infrastructure systems which are capable of catering to the societal needs at different scales – from an individual to the community level. Consequently, the civil and infrastructure industry has undergone profound changes and is constantly evolving. However, the new-age designs and innovations in the civil and infrastructure industry can only be driven by a group of engineering graduates having multidisciplinary training and a sound understanding of emerging technologies. The Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur  esatablished in January 2020. We started academics programs in the academic year 2020-2021. The department offers unique programs that incorporate and integrate the elements of conventional civil engineering with advanced transformative technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), cyber-physical-systems (CPS), digital twins (DT), and automated management and information systems. Additionally, a major thrust is also planned on the design, implementation, and maintenance of large-scale integrated infrastructure systems across different domains.

The focus areas of the department are :

Energy and Environment
Building Sciences, Safety, and Services
Applications of AI, IoT and CPS in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Smart and Integrated Infrastructure
Urban Architecture and Planning
Construction Technology and Management
Transportation Engineering
Structural Engineering
Geotechnical Engineering
Water resources Engineering
Engineering Geology
Vision
"The Department strives to be an internationally renowned centre of excellence in education, research, and innovation with a major focus on sustainability and digitalization of infrastructure."

Missions
Develop unique courses in the field of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering through advanced UG and PG programs with a multidisciplinary perspective.
Establish high quality teaching and research facilities in the areas of smart, resilient, and sustainable infrastructure engineering to foster the needs of society.
Promote consilient research through application of AI/ML, cyber-physical-systems, digital twin and advanced visualization in the areas of Energy, Environment, Transportation, and Construction.
Promote innovative and entrepreneurial activities through intellectual property generation and transfer.
Nurture the potential of students to become future leaders in the Civil Engineering industry for leadership achievements, scientific breakthroughs and social welfare.
Quick Access
Department Brochure   (5.1 MB)
Academic Calendar
IITJ at a Glance 2024 (English)
IITJ at a Glance 2024 (Hindi)

News & Newsletter
View all news
Latest Events
View all events



Home
People
Academics
Research
Achievements
Students
Events
Join Us
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Computer Science & Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering Slider 3 

Welcome to the Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering, today, plays a major role in transforming every aspect of human life - in addressing social challenges and catalyzing the ongoing wave of the industrial revolution. The department is driven by its commitment to excel in next generation technology development and research. Our mission is to strengthen industry-academia collaborations and prepare our students to contribute to multi-disciplinary projects and R&D for solving problems of national interest.

Vision
To be among the top 10 departments in terms of research contributions, practical impact, and applications of Computer Science and Engineering in the country in the next 3 years, and internationally well known in some focused areas in the next 5 years. Some of our missions are to achieve excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subject for innovative discoveries; develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating; and develop and support the notion of “computing for all” across disciplines at the institute.

Mission
Our missions are to achieve excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subject for innovative discoveries; develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating; and develop and support the notion of “computing for all” across disciplines at the institute.

(M1) Achieving excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subjects for innovative discoveries.
(M2) Develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating within the institute, as well by means of international, national and regional institutes. The collaborations may be fostered by research visits, collaborative projects, joint thesis, internship guidance, research mentoring etc.
(M3) Develop and support the notion of “computing for all” across disciplines at the institute.
(M4) Embracing shared dialogue across disciplines and encouraging experiential learning to redefine the contours of traditional Computer Science teaching and learning. Be one of the leading departments in the country for hybrid CSE education.
(M5) Define and solve real-world problems in collaboration with industry, and develop industry- connect by means of research grants/ consultancies, and collaborative projects. Develop Start-up ecosystem in emerging areas of computing in collaboration with other departments at IIT Jodhpur.
(M6) Dissemination of knowledge without physical boundaries, i.e. classroom, online and other modes of teaching, to create a workforce which is ready to ethically solve technological challenges of the next generation.
(M7) Provide thought leadership in public policy and ethics of emerging computing technologies towards building an equitable and ethical society.
News & Events
View all news

Announcements
View all announcements



Home
People
Recruitment
Research
Academic Programs
Laboratories
Calender
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Electrical Engineering
B.Tech. Program Specialization for Electrical Engineering

Welcome to the Department of Electrical Engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering primarily focuses on imparting quality education and preparing students to face future technological challenges. The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic and human resource development.

The Department is committed to engage in high-quality research by Faculty Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence in teaching. The Department offers B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering with broad range of major and minor specializations and three state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs in Sensors and Internet of Things (SIoT), Cyber Physical Systems (CPS), and Intelligent Communication Systems (ICS).

The Department also runs dual degree (M.Tech. + Ph.D.) programs in Intelligent Communication Systems, Sensors and Internet of Things (SIoT) and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS) as well as Ph.D. program with a broad range of specializations covering detailed aspects of Microelectronics, Signal Processing, Communication, Microwave & Photonics, Power systems, Control systems etc. The Department is also starting a new Executive MTech Program in Intelligent VLSI Systems (for working professionals) from July 2022.

The prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students are encouraged to visit the Academic Programs (UG Program, PG Programs and Doctoral Programs) page of the Department to know more about the details of courses offered in the department.

To know more about the current research themes of the faculty members, the prospective students are encouraged to visit the Research Overview page of the Department. Technology Tracks currently pursued by the Department include emerging and challenging fields that culminate at the intersection of several traditional research areas.

Current Technology Tracks
5G-Beyond-Communication	Signal-Processing		Nanoelectronics-Integrated	Smart-Grid	Embedded-Computing	Artificial-Intelligence
Active collaboration is on-going with organizations like Freescale Semiconductors, Global Foundries, AIIMS Jodhpur, DST, DRDO, and ISRO, to name a few. The Department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R&D organizations since its inception.

Consolidated (year-wise) cutoffs of last four years  ( Download file: 342 KB)

Latest News
View all news
Latest Event
View all events



Home
People
Recruitment
Research
Academic Programs
Student
Maths Society
Laboratories
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Mathematics
Home page image for mathematics slide9

Welcome to the Department of Mathematics
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and creates new theories to solve real-world challenging problems. Our department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods to model such situations that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering, and basic sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Algebra, Mathematical Physics, Scientific Computation, Numerical Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Reliability Theory, Applied Probability.

We are excited to offer high-quality programs at postgraduate level for students who wish to apply math to science or engineering such as a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences. We also offer an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational Sciences and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics to those who wish to earn a deeper understanding of pure and applied Mathematics.

Image of Thrust Area

 Workshop on LEAN     List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II of 2025-26  5th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization (ICNAAO -2025)
From the Head of the Department
Head Message From The Mathematics Department
Welcome to the Department of Mathematics!!

The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to advancing the fields of pure mathematics, applied mathematics and statistics. Our vision is to emphasize both the fundamental principles of core mathematics and the foundational concepts essential for analyzing key principles applied in cutting-edge technologies. Since its establishment, the department has been actively engaged in research across various critical areas of mathematics and computing.

The department also aimed to explore modern aspects of mathematics coupled with computational capabilities to develop a workforce specialized in mathematical aspects of key technologies. With this inclination, the department initiated academic programs to address the mathematical needs of both industry and academia. Currently, we offer various programmes, namely, a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences....

Read More: Head Message
Latest Events
View all Events

Announcement
View all announcement
Latest News
View all news



Home
People
Recruitment
Research
Academic Programs
Laboratories
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Mechanical Engineering
Home page image for ME 10

Welcome to the Department of Mechanical Engineering
The Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is devoted to quality engineering education and pursuits the excellence in research. It is dedicated to preparing students to face the emerging challenges faced by society. The vision of the Department is to translate its research and to innovate in pedagogy to enable ignited young minds to find technological solutions for upcoming challenges. The Department offers B. Tech. M. Tech. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Design, and Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of things (IoT), Smart Healthcare, and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS).

At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are educated in a way not only to adapt but to define direct change. This is reflected in the portfolio of the current activities of the Department. Faculty members are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas of energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor dynamics, nanomaterials, biomechanics, bio-inspired thermo-fluids, fluid-structure interaction, etc. to name a few. Additionally, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts like smart manufacturing, Industry 4.O, Smart scientific computing techniques, high-performance computing, applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, sensors, and IoT as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring mechanical engineering know-how. Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on experience, the Department intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills.

The department has active collaborations with AIIMS Jodhpur, General Electric, Thermax, DRDO, ISRO, TCS Innovation Lab, TVS Motor Company to name a few. The department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R&D organizations since its inception.
Technology Tracks
Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0
Multiscale Manufacturing
Processing of Novel Materials
Fluid Thermal System Design
Multiphase Flows
Energy and Sustainability
Solid Mechanics and Design
Vibration and Acoustics
Robotics and Mobility Systems
Aerodynamics
Mechanical-Engineering-Tech
Various Tracks
Mechanical Engineering Building

Mechanical Engineering Building
Latest News
View all news

Latest Events
View all events



Home
People
Recruitment
Research
Academic Programs
Laboratories
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Materials Engineering
welcome in materials

Welcome To The Department of Materials Engineering
The Department of Materials Engineering at IIT Jodhpur was established in 2017, and the Department is committed to high-quality education and research in the broad area of Materials Engineering. The Department continuously strives for excellence in teaching and research through innovative pedagogy and curriculum, by undertaking interdisciplinary projects, and through active collaborations with industries, R&D labs, and academia. By enabling the students to think independently and equipping them with relevant skill sets, our goal is to encourage the graduates to innovate and address present-day materials challenges to meet the needs of the country.

At present, the Department offers B.Tech., M.Tech., and Ph.D. programs. The Department's teaching and research activities cover four major streams- structural materials, functional materials, computational materials engineering, and process metallurgy. From structural materials to semiconductors, we attempt to understand the processing, composition and structure, properties, and performance of materials for deriving novel, effective, and sustainable alternatives. Currently, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts such as smart materials, additive manufacturing, artificial intelligence and machine learning, sensor materials, etc., as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring Materials Engineering knowledge.

Department building image

Department building image
 
Head of the Department
The Department of Materials Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is working towards building future generation minds rich in skills and innovation to be the best in the outside world. Faculty Members in the department have expertise in diverse areas of Materials Engineering. They are actively involved in conducting translational research in the fundamental and applied areas of Materials Engineering. The department frequently organizes invited lectures and workshops to share research findings, train students on the state-of-the-art experimental and computational techniques to promote the development of skill sets.

The Department welcomes bright people who aspire to utilize the power of ambitious research and teaching to shape a better future.

Materials Design and Processing
Advanced Structural and Functional Materials
Computational Materials Engineering
Extractive and Process Metallurgy
Materials Testing and Characterization
Head of the Department image

Latest News
View all news
Latest Event
View all events



Home
People
Recruitment
Academic Programs
Research
Laboratories
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Physics
Physics  image for home page slider 10

Welcome To The Department of Physics
The subject of Physics is inherently a natural science subject based on strong theoretical foundations and experimental findings. The subject closely intersects with almost all the branches of engineering and the current research activities of physics across the world made a huge impact on new, advanced, and emerging technologies. Keeping these facts into consideration, our Department is committed to imparting high-quality education based on a strong academic curriculum comprising elements of theoretical concepts, laboratory experiments, and most importantly hands-on experiments. The graduates of the Department are expected to have deep insight into the domain of Physics together with a strong bent of mind to pursue cutting-edge research and translate it into technology.

We offer a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Our 4 Year BS in Physics with specialization is a technology-oriented science program and offers specialization in physics-based emerging technology domains. The program also has the flexibility to convert into a 5 Year BS + M.Tech. dual degree course. At the postgraduate level, we have four-degree programs viz. M.Sc. (2 years), M.Sc.-M.Tech Dual Degree in Physics and Materials Engineering. The dual degree program also has additional two specializations namely Functional Materials and Computational Materials Engineering. Finally, our Ph.D. program empowers scholars to pursue research in various domains.

Research Areas
The department has a very good blend of highly qualified young and experienced faculty members in the areas of advanced physics. The department is also equipped with a number of thematic laboratories which enable the students to carry out high-end and impactful theoretical and applied research in the following focus areas:

Research Areas of physics department
Research Areas
High Energy Physics and Astrophysics

Theoretical research in domains; Flavour physics, Astrophysics, Particle physics, Cosmology, and Dark matter and Dark energy. Experimental research in flavor physics with the Belle II Experiment.

Quantum Physics

Open Quantum Systems, Theoretical and Experimental aspects of Quantum Optics & Quantum Information, Quantum Field Theory, Quantum Statistical Mechanics and Quantum Cosmology.

Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Group

Experimental and Theoretical Research on Molecular electronics, Organic electronics, Cold Plasma Technologies and applications, Energy Storage, Solar cells, Light emitting diodes, Solar water splitting, Soft Matters, Statistical Physics, Computational Physics, Multiscale Modelling, Phase ordering dynamics, Glasses, Amorphous solids, Polymers and Solid Electrolyte materials, Physics of Living Matter, Active Matter Physics, Functional Materials, Materials Design and Engineering, Nanomagnetism and Multiferroics.

Optics and Photonics

Theoretical and Experimental Research in Nano Photonics, Light in disordered media, Ultrafast Optics, Nonlinear Optics, Topological Singularities, Specially Optical Fibers, Photonic sensors, Time Dynamic systems, Terahertz generation and application, Transient and Steady-state Spectroscopy, Bound state in the continuum, Disorder Photons and Light Matter Interaction and Ceramic materials for high energy laser applications.

Candidates interested in pursuing Ph.D., please go through the Research groups and visit the individual faculty's home pages. The application can be submitted with this link.

Infrastructure
The department is equipped with high-end research equipment which includes SQUID magnetometer, Physical Property Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman Spectrometer, and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM) besides a host of other advanced characterization equipment which is available at the Centre for Research & Development of Scientific Instruments (CRDSI).

Collaborations
The department is having close collaboration with a number of National and International agencies including DRDO, ISRO, DAE, CSIR, DST, and SERB. Department Faculties also have collaborations with various Institutes of National and International repute, namely TIFR, IIT Bombay, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT BHU, Central University of Rajasthan, University of Montreal, Canada, University of Warsaw Poland, Brookhaven National Laboratory USA, ETH Zurich Switzerland, IMEM Parma Italy, INFN Turino, Italy, CMU Pittsburgh USA, Belle II KEK Japan etc.


Our Social Media Connect
    facebook image instagram image  linkedin image youtube image

Contact Numbers for New Students (for any queries regarding registration, accessing facilities etc..)

Phone Numbers: +91-291-2801602 (Office of Physics) 

Highlights
View all highlights

Latest News
View all news
Seminars & Meetings
View all events

Important links
CCCD @ IITJ
Recruitment
Correspondence
RTI
Tenders
Techscape
Contact
Old Website
NCCR Portal
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Donations
Web Policy
Web Information Manager
Feedback
CERT-IN
Help
NIRF
Internal Committee
Intranet Links
IIT Jodhpur Facebook Page
IIT Jodhpur Twitter Page
IIT Jodhpur You tube Channel
IIT Jodhpur Instagram Page
IIT Jodhpur Linkedin Page
G20 India 2023
75 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF)
Vidya Lakshmi Fulfilling Educational Aspirations
National Commission for Women (NCW) Helpline
National Anti-Ragging Monitoring Agency
india.gov.in National portal of India
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation, IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)

For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM.

Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 02:26 PM
arrow_downward️





IIT Jodhpur Home Page
  A+ A A-   

   Sitemap
Home
Admission
FAQs
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Bachelor of Technology
Welcome image for Btech program

Previous
Nextpause
B.Tech. Programmes at IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur offers eight B.Tech. Programmes, namely,

 	1. B.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering)	 
 	2. B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)	 
 	3. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)	 
 	4. B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)	 
 	5. B.Tech. (AI and Data Science)	 
 	6. B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering)	 
 	7. B.Tech. (Materials Engineering)	 
 	8. B.Tech. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering)	 
 	9. B.Tech. (Electronics Engineering)	 	 
 
For details of Curriculum please visit the page and Program Structure click here .

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES OF IITJ: CURRICULUM FOR A GLOBAL ENGINEER
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is committed to educational excellence through a strong student-focused educational experience and to provide quality education with the contemporary and highly professional curricula. In order to achieve this objective, IIT Jodhpur has undergone thorough curriculum change in the year 2019 and came up with a new curriculum. This article highlights philosophy ingrained in the new curriculum and some salient features.
 
The societal challenges of the 21st century are profound and wide-ranging. Basic needs such as energy, food and water, housing, mobility, and health will become even more acute as the world population exceeds 9 billion. The demands for sustainable development will require redefined and innovative engineering talent and leadership. The emergence of a connected, competitive, and entrepreneurial global economy, in which successful engineers increasingly need technical competency and professional skills that differ from what worked in the past. These reasons build up a clear case for disruptive revision of the undergraduate curriculum.
 
Some of the attributes expected of modern engineers are:
 1.	 Flexibility to understand and manage rapidly evolving technologies;
 2. 	 Ability to identify, define as well as solve problems;
 3. 	 Proficiency in theory and applications;
 4. 	 Skill for handling out-of-the-box engineering challenges;
 5. 	 Capable of Creative Thinking;
 6. 	 Experience of entrepreneurship;
 7. 	 Understanding of public policy implications.
 	 
Today the creative function of engineering is expected to be viewed and understood in the broader context of the new patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities and social sciences, arts and engineering. IIT Jodhpur has pursued a newer structure of programmes in addition to classical programmes to address these opportunities.

Objectives

The objective of the new curriculum is to define a novel instructional paradigm and content plan to address modern demands of professional education (as outlined above) based upon the philosophy of outcome-based education. The curriculum builds on four guiding principles of outcome-based academic, i.e., 

 1.	 All students can learn and succeed but maybe not on the same day or in the same way  

 2.	 Each success by a student breeds more success (success must open up the opportunity of more success)

 3.	 Academic institutions create and nurture the conditions of success

 4.	 The academic system acknowledges and respects challenging initiatives without fear of failure.

Unique features of the UG curriculum

Unique features of the undergraduate curriculum are highlighted next:

The curriculum emphasized the fundamentals of basic and engineering sciences to enable learners to have a broader multi-disciplinary perspective for the specialisation being pursued. Departmental courses focus on fundamental scientific principles behind technologies.
Avenues created for pursuing co-curricular and extra-curricular creative interests as an integral component of the curricular content by introducing nongraded courses on social connect, performing arts, and communication skills. As an outcome of these pursuits, a student is expected to improve their capacity to imagine and to build up enthusiasm to pursue unknown territories through purely creative ventures.

Early design courses are introduced which focus more heavily on conceptual design methods and less on discipline-specific artefacts. These courses teach that design is open-ended; that there are numerous engineering challenges beyond domains of traditional disciplines, and that students could begin to think and work like engineers.
Avenues created for making students continuously engaged in these intellectual processes throughout the curriculum and at an increasingly sophisticated level through design credits. Such continual integrative experiences help students to expand and deepen their “internal knowledge structure” of the discipline, which will aid their eventual retrieval and use. 
Opportunities and challenges continue to require engineers to literally invent the future by developing breakthrough technologies that solve global problems and enhance the quality of life. Entrepreneurship education has been introduced in the curriculum as a minor which gives them solid experience in product design and development, prototyping, technology trends, and market analysis

Options of Department Area Specialisation and five-year B.Tech.+M.Tech. allows students to pursue in-depth study of the topics of interest belonging to the programme. Department Area Specialization in Engineering Innovation has also been introduced with the aim of making students Industry Ready by offering five months Practical Project jointly with an Industry or R & D organization. Students get real-world experience working for an industry or R & D organization on a project that complements their academic experience.
With the rapid change in the contours of engineering education due to emergence of Miniaturization, Parallelism, Smart Materials, Bio-mimetic Systems, AI and Cognitive Systems, the role of engineering institute is not only preparing students in their major areas of study but also on other skills to encourage interdisciplinary teams to address challenges faced by the society. The emphasis has been laid on the development of technical skills in interdisciplinary areas and upcoming fields by introducing various Interdisciplinary specializations such as AI, CPS, IoT, Robotics, Smart Healthcare, etc.
With evolving patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines and obliterating traditional boundaries between science and engineering, a capability linked Double B.Tech. with second degree in Engineering Science is introduced to pursue newer structures of programmes in addition to classical programmes to provide ability to apply diverse knowledge and skills flexibly in novel situations.

 With changing paradigms of Evaluation and Assessment, the performance of students in a course is evaluated not only thorough examinations but also on a continuous basis which include but not limited to interaction in the classroom interaction, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. Technology-enabled aids have been assimilated into continuation evaluation as an integrated component. 

The finer granularity in grading has been introduced to allow for more precise and fairer grading, provide a more reliable indication of student performance, and give students a better opportunity to improve their grades.
Throughout the curriculum Efforts have been laid down at building up Strong Foundation, Enabling Continuous Learning, Inter-disciplinary Breadth, Design Thinking, Imbibing Creative and Critical Thinking, Social Responsibility and Professional Ethics, and Sustainability as distinct thematic Commitment.



Home
People
Details
Academic Calender
List of Programs
Contact
More
IIT Jodhpur
Office of Academics Affairs
Home
Details
B.S.
B.S.
New BS Programs
S.No.	Program Name	Action
1	BS (Physics) with Specialization	View
2	BS (Chemistry) with Specialization	View



Home
Admission
FAQs
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Master of Technology
Welcome image for pg program

Previous
Nextpause
Master of Technology Programs
 	1.	M.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering)
 	2.	M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
 	3.	M.Tech. (Artificial Intelligence)
 	 
 	4.	M.Tech. (Cyber Physical Systems)
 	5.	M.Tech. (Sensors and Internet of Things) Discontinue from AY 2026-27
 	6.	M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences)
 	 
 	7. 	M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
 	8.	M.Tech. (Thermofluids Engineering)
 	9.	M.Tech. (Materials Engineering)
 	 	 
 	10.	M.Tech. (Chemical Engineering)
 	11.	M.Tech. (Environmental Engineering)
 	12.	M.Tech. (Energy Infrastructure)
 	 	 
 	13. 	
M. Tech (Communication Systems)

 	14.	MTech AR VR
 	15.	Robotics
 	16.	Quantum Technologies
 	17.	Bridge Engineering
 	18.	Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies



Home
Admission
FAQs
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Master of Science
Welcome image for pg program

Previous
Nextpause

Master of Science Programs

 	1.	M.Sc. (Chemistry)
 	2.	M.Sc. (Mathematics)
 	3.	M.Sc. (Physics)
 	4.	M.Sc.(Digital Humanities)
 	5.	M.Sc. (Computational Social Science)



Home
Admission
FAQs
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Doctor of Philosophy
Welcome image for pg program

Previous
Nextpause
Doctor of Philosophy Programs

Core Sciences

 	1.	Ph.D. (Chemistry)

 	2.	Ph.D. (Mathematics)

 	3.	Ph.D. (Physics)

 Engineering Sciences

 	1.	Ph.D. (Biosciences and Bioengineering)

 	2.	Ph.D. (Computer Science & Engineering)

 	3.	Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering)

 	4.	Ph.D. (Mechanical Engineering)

 	5.	Ph.D. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)

 	6.	Ph.D. (Chemical Engineering)

 	7.	Ph.D. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering) 

 Inter-disciplinary Areas

 	1.	Ph.D. (Robotics and Mobility Systems)

 	2.	Ph.D. (Digital Humanities)

 	3.	Ph.D. (Quantum Information and Computation)

 	4.	Ph.D. (Smart Healthcare)

 	5.	Ph.D. (Space Science & Technologies)

 Schools

 	 Ph.D. (School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science)

 	 Ph.D. (School of Liberal Arts)

 	 Ph.D. (Management and Entrepreneurship)

         Ph.D. (Schools of Design)

 Centers

 	1. Ph.D. (Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development -CETSD )

 	2. Ph.D. (Center for Education Technology -CET)

        3. Ph.D. (Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics)

        4. Ph.D. (Center for Internet of Things (IoT) & Applications)

        5. Ph.D. (Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy)

        6. Ph.D. (Center for Technology Foresight and Policy)

 

Home
About ITEP at IIT Jodhpur
Curriculum
Admissions
Faculty
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Integrated Teacher Education Programme
Home page image for ITEP 3

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome To The Integrated Teacher Education Programme
The Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP), as envisioned by the National Education Policy, 2020, offers a unique opportunity for the IIT ecosystem as a whole to directly contribute to shaping the next generation of leaders. IIT Jodhpur is proud to announce the commencement of ITEP (BSc-BEd) for Secondary Stage with Major in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics from 2024.

The Secondary Stage (classes IX to XII), which represents a critical point of transition between school and higher education, deserves special attention in the Indian context. The significant challenges at this stage include the issue of retaining students in the school system, streaming them according to their innate potential and interests, and preparing them to acquire the necessary technological and discipline specific exposure for future academic and career choices.

The Jodhpur Model of Teacher Education envisions the all-round development of the Graduate Teacher for the Secondary Stage who will have (i) strong technological, pedagogical and content knowledge (ii) motivation for self-improvement and self-organization (iii) commitment to constitutional values and fundamental duties (iv) strong ethics and values (v) passion and drive for innovation in teaching (vi) effective communication skills (vii) dedication to lifelong learning, and (viii) empathy for students and commitment to their well-being.

Proposed Jodhpur Model of Teacher Education: Vision of the all-round development of a Graduate Teacher for the Secondary Stage

Applications for the NCET Examination 2026 are open from 12 February to 10 March 2026. For more information, visit https://exams.nta.nic.in/ncet/
Message From The Director

Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal

Director, IIT Jodhpur

Greetings from IIT Jodhpur!

The most significant challenge for the transformation of school education is the absence of qualified and competent teachers. It is estimated that India has a shortfall of more than 10 lakh school teachers. The National Education Policy 2020 reminds us that teachers are critical to the goal of nation-building, and achieving a just and prosperous society, rooted in our cultural values and civilizational history. In this context, the new Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) is a vital step that we as a nation will be taking towards building a new kind of education system. This will bridge the rich values, traditions, history and civilizational legacy of India with the futuristic potential offered by new technologies for sustainable, inclusive and enriching life on planet Earth.

The ITEP Program at IIT Jodhpur is an opportunity for all students who want to be the kind of school teachers who will make a difference in STEM education at the Secondary Stage. An important need of our nation is to equip learners in the age group 14 to 18 years with the necessary modern skills and competencies to participate in a rapidly transforming global knowledge ecosystem, shaped by disruptive technologies including artificial intelligence. Our present age requires creative solutions to pressing problems of human rights, sustainable development and global well being. This means thinking out of the box and moving away from traditional models of school education, which reward rote learning and kill the innate creativity of children.

My dynamic team of faculty members will work to create the next generation of teachers whose knowledge and pedagogy will free the creative imaginations of their students, leading to novel solutions for Viksit Bharat and global development. Excellence in disciplinary knowledge, cutting edge curricula, intellectual freedom and deep awareness of the local and national needs are the hallmarks of pedagogy at IIT Jodhpur. I believe that this ethos of the institute will equip school teachers who are passionate about teaching and learning. We want to develop teachers who possess a strong sense of respect to Fundamental Duties, faith in constitutional values and pride in our Indian ethos. This will give them an energy to work passionately and tirelessly to understand and solve problems at the local, national and international levels.

We invite you to be part of this journey as we develop a ‘Jodhpur model’ of teacher education that will advance the pursuit of knowledge, wisdom and truth in the nation and the world at large! I have faith that this will be an unforgettable journey for everyone involved in this process.

Program Objectives
To ensure that future educators are equipped with the skills, especially in the area of science, technology, and pedagogy, which are required to adapt to evolving educational needs, the objectives of the 4-year Integrated BSc-BEd Program (ITEP) for the Secondary Stage at IIT Jodhpur include:

Developing necessary competencies in graduates for teaching at the secondary stage of school education (classes 9 to 12) (as envisioned by NEP and NCTE Curriculum Framework, p.18)
Capacity building in the area of Science & Technology Education in India
Developing pedagogical skills among teachers in India
Enabling technology integration in the classroom for future learners of India
Building connection with the society and inculcate the required communication skills
Expected Graduate Attributes
After completing this programme, the graduate would have:

A deep understanding of educational theories and principles, suitable for teaching at the secondary stage of school education (classes 9 to 12) (as envisioned in NEP and NCTE Curriculum Framework, p.18)
Training in attributes specific to teaching in Grades (9-10) and for Grades (11-12)
A comprehensive knowledge of the subject to be taught
Skillset to integrate technology into teaching to enhance learning experiences
An understanding of various forms of assessments to measure student progress
A commitment to continuous professional development
A commitment to build positive connections with the surrounding society through their teaching practice and model this to their future students by example

The ITEP is being coordinated at IIT Jodhpur by their Center for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) and has involvement of faculty members across various disciplines. Know more about the CETE at iitj.ac.in/cete .

Credit Structure

The distribution of credits for the programme across 4 years is as follows. 

Source
Of Course
Criterion
Course 
Component
Total Credits
Course
Category
Credits
Per
category
Year 1	Year 2	Year 3	Year 4
Sem. 1	Sem.2	Sem. 3	Sem.4	Sem. 5	Sem.6	Sem. 7	Sem. 8
NCTE
Curriculum
Framework
An induction programme at the start of each year	Non Graded
Science Major
72
Specialization Compulsory	48	12	12	12	12	-	-	-	-
Specialization Elective	24	-	-	-	-	12	12	-	-
Foundations in Education
31
Programme Compulsory 	28	3	-	4	4	-	4	6	7
Open Elective	3	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	3
Ability Enhancement & Value-Added courses	28	Programme Compulsory 	28	7	7	2	-	3	-	4	5
Stage-specific content -cum-pedagogy	16	Programme Compulsory 	16	-	-	4	4	4	4	-	-
School Experience	22	Programme Compulsory 	22	-	-	-	-	3	2	12	5
Community Service 	2	Non-Graded	2	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	2
IITJ
Recommended
Design and Computational Thinking	3	Programme Compulsory 	3	-	3	-	-	-	-	-	-
Design Credit Project	2	Non-Graded	2	-	-	-	2	-	-	-	-
Total Credits	176	176	22	22	22	22	22	22	22	22



Home
People
Program
Schedule
Registration
Faculty
Testimonials
News & Updates
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Office of Executive Education
Home
Program
Program Portfolio
Program Portfolio
The Office of Executive Education at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur plays a pivotal role in providing advanced, flexible education to working professionals in various high-demand technical fields. With a mission to bridge the gap between industry requirements and professional expertise, the office offers a wide range of programs, including Online M.Tech, Postgraduate Diplomas (PGD), Postgraduate Certificates (PGC), and specialized certification courses. The emphasis is on providing accessible, high-quality education that aligns with the evolving needs of industries such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data Engineering, Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality (AR/VR), VLSI, and more.

Online M.Tech Programs: The online M.Tech programs are a key component of IIT Jodhpur's Executive Education offerings. Designed to cater to working professionals, these programs offer the flexibility of online learning while maintaining the rigor of traditional on-campus courses. By focusing on cutting-edge technologies, these programs equip students with skills that are highly valued in today's fast-evolving tech landscape.

Online M.Tech in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Online M.Tech in Data and Computational Sciences (DCS)
Online M.Tech in Remote Sensing and Mobility (RMS)
Online M.Tech in Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality (AR/VR)
Online Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS)
Online M.Tech in Data Engineering (DE)
Postgraduate Diploma (PGD) Programs

The PGD programs at IIT Jodhpur are designed for professionals looking to gain specialized knowledge in fields like Data Engineering, Omics Technologies, and AI. These programs are shorter than M.Tech programs but focus intensely on practical applications, making them highly valuable for professionals aiming for specific career advancements.

PGD in Data Engineering (PGD DE)
PGD in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
PGD & Certificate in Next Generation OMICS Technologies and Applications
PGD in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing (DECC)
Postgraduate Certificate (PGC) Programs

The PGC programs are shorter, more focused courses aimed at professionals looking to enhance specific skills in areas like Omics and Data Analytics. These programs allow professionals to upskill quickly without committing to longer-term academic programs.

PGC in Data Analytics (DA)
PGC in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI & ML)
Online MBA Tech Program (2024)

In 2024, the launch of the MBA Tech program in 2024 marks an important diversification of IIT Jodhpur’s offerings, blending technology and management education to create leaders capable of driving innovation in tech industries enrolling 96 students.

The Executive Education programs at IIT Jodhpur have proven successful in addressing the growing demand for high-tech skills among working professionals. Through a combination of M.Tech, PGD, PGC, and the newly introduced MBA Tech programs, the Office of Executive Education continues to expand its reach and impact, providing valuable education that aligns with industry requirements. As IIT Jodhpur continues to grow its executive education portfolio, it will play an increasingly important role in shaping the careers of professionals and advancing the technological capabilities of industries across India and beyond.

Featured Programs

S.No.	Programme Name
1	Executive M.Tech in Data and Computational Sciences (DCS)
2	Executive M.Tech in Robotics & Mobility Systems (RMS)
3	Executive M.Tech in Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality (AR/VR)
4	Executive M.Tech in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS)
5	Executive M.Tech in Data Engineering (Stackable Programme transition from Post Graduate Diploma in Data Engineering)
6	PG Diploma in Data Engineering (DE)
7	Executive M.Tech in Artificial Intelligence (Stackable Programme transition from Post Graduate Diploma in AI)
8	PG Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
9	MBA Tech
10	Post Graduate Certificate in AI&ML
11	PG Diploma and PG Certificate I and II in Next - Generation OMICS Technologies and Applications (Certificate Program I) and (Certificate II)
12	Online BSc. Program in Applied AI and Data Science

View All Programs

Academic Calendar

Academic Calendar BS / BSC ( 174 KB)
Academic Calendar PG-Certificate/PG Diploma/MBA-Tech (Trimester Model)(AY 2025-26) ( 151 KB)
Academic Calendar PG-Certificate in Machine Learning and Artificial (AY 2024-25) ( 140 KB)



Home
About SME
Programs
Admissions
People
Students
Corporate
Outreach
COE-IP
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Home
Admissions
Master of Business Administration
IIT Jodhpur
Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process

IIT Jodhpur
How to Apply

IIT Jodhpur
Fee Structure & Student Intake

IIT Jodhpur
CAT Cut-offs

IIT Jodhpur
FAQs



Home
People
Academics
Students
Admission
The Design Pod
Placement
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
School of Design
Home
Admission
Masters of Design (MDes) 2025
Masters of Design (MDes) 2025
Overview
The MDes programs at the School of Design, IIT Jodhpur combine creativity, technology, and innovation to equip aspiring designers with the skills and industry exposure needed to push the boundaries of design. Whether you’re passionate about immersive experiences in XR Design or pioneering smart products for the future, this program provides the tools and expertise to bring your ideas to life. The School of Design, IIT Jodhpur currently offers two MDes programs: XR Design and Smart Product Design.

MDes in XR Design
The MDes XR Design is a pathbreaking program in the emerging area of Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality (MR), and Virtual Reality (VR) experience design that addresses the growing need of the industry to create useful, engaging, and socially relevant experiences that extend the real world or live entirely in the virtual, in areas such as healthcare, entertainment, and education.

MDes in Smart Product Design
The world around us is undergoing a dramatic transformation. We are increasingly interconnected, with a growing number of everyday products evolving into intelligent companions. The MDes in Smart Product Design is crafted to meet the growing demand for professionals who can create innovative, user-centric products that harness the power of smart technology. This program is designed to bridge the gap between cutting-edge technologies, user experience (UX) principles, and design methodology. We aim to delve into the world of smart products, from connected devices to AI-powered systems, learning to design seamless interactions that not only leverage technology's power but also enrich people's lives. This program is ideal for aspiring designers who are passionate about innovation and eager to push the boundaries of physical and digital experiences. As the world embraces smart technology, the demand for skilled designers who can create user-centered, intuitive, and intelligent products is skyrocketing. The MDes in Smart Product Design will prepare future designers to be leaders in this dynamic field, shaping the future of how we interact with the world around us.

Contact
Office of the School of Design

Phone: 0291-280-1782 (between 10:00 AM and 05:00 PM on working days)

Email: office_design@iitj.ac.in



Home
People
About
Internship
Eligibility
How to Apply
Documents Required
Updates and notifications
Contacts
IIT Jodhpur
Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ)
Suraj welcome image

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to the Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ), IIT Jodhpur
An opportunity to engage in mentored research with IIT Jodhpur faculty, explore advanced laboratories, and gain hands-on project, technical, and research experience.

IIT Jodhpur has a provision for direct admission to the meritorious B.Tech. students from NITs to pursue Ph.D. at IIT Jodhpur. In order to provide a prior exposure of the state-of-the-art research labs of the different academic units at IIT Jodhpur, the institute has launched a summer internship program “Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ)” from 2025 summer onwards. The following are the main highlights of of the SURAJ.

Opportunity for NIT students to join PhD program at IIT after BTech./B.S./M.Sc.

Offline Mode For Easy Access State-of-the-art research facilities

Poster Session and Oral Presentations and Best Project Certificates

Stipend of Rs.6000/- per month for maximum 2 months

SURAJ offers an opportunity to gain research experience with distinguished faculty from IIT Jodhpur. Applicants are advised to explore the faculty profiles and research areas available on the IIT Jodhpur website before submitting their preferences for project mentors. Applicants can visit the IIT Jodhpur website to explore the faculty’s research areas and prioritise mentors according to their interests. They may contact faculty via email with a well-crafted SoP and resume, clearly demonstrating their willingness to learn and potential contribution to the faculty's research.

Departments Offering Internship in the IIT Jodhpur

Departments
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Chemistry Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Mathematics Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Physics
Schools
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
School of Design

School of Liberal Arts

School of Management & Entrepreneurship 
Research Centres
Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development (CETSD)
Center for Education Technology (CET)
Center for AIoT and Application
Center for Technology Foresight and Policys (CTFP)
Manekshaw Centre
(MCOENSSR)
Medical Technologies
Center
Center for Digital Health
 Rules that will be followed during the internship at the IIT Jodhpur
The selected interns will be required to adhere to all the rules and code of conduct of IIT Jodhpur during the internship programme.
Important links
CCCD @ IITJ
Recruitment
Correspondence
RTI
Tenders
Techscape
Contact
Old Website
NCCR Portal
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Donations
Web Policy
Web Information Manager
Feedback
CERT-IN
Help
NIRF
Internal Committee
Intranet Links
IIT Jodhpur Facebook Page
IIT Jodhpur Twitter Page
IIT Jodhpur You tube Channel
IIT Jodhpur Instagram Page
IIT Jodhpur Linkedin Page
G20 India 2023
75 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF)
Vidya Lakshmi Fulfilling Educational Aspirations
National Commission for Women (NCW) Helpline
National Anti-Ragging Monitoring Agency
india.gov.in National portal of India
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation, IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)

For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM.

Last Updated : 17 Mar 2026 - 10:33 AM
arrow_downward️





IIT Jodhpur Home Page
  A+ A A-   

   Sitemap
Home
About SAIDE
Academics
Research
CoEs
People
Join Us
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
Congratulations to N. Akhila, Ph.D. student, on her selection for the Genpact Doctoral Student Fellowship.

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (SAIDE)
News
View All news
Events
View all events
Key Functionaries

Anil Kumar Tiwari
Head SAIDE (Professor Electrical Engineering)

Student Life at SAIDE

Student life at SAIDE is vibrant and enriching, offering a perfect blend of academic learning and extracurricular activities. With a focus on holistic development, the institute provides numerous opportunities for students to explore their interests and talents beyond the classroom.

The institute also emphasizes the importance of community service and social responsibility, encouraging students to engage in various outreach programs and initiatives that benefit society.

Read More: Student Life at SAIDE
Internal
Reserve Room
View Bookings



Home
People
Academics
Students
Admission
The Design Pod
Placement
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
School of Design
Welcome image in SoD

Welcome To The School of Design
The School of Design at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur welcomes you into its esteemed community of creative minds and problem solvers. While you embark on this creative journey, prepare to engage in dynamic discourse, challenge paradigms, and collaborate with faculty and peers, forging new frontiers in design and its application.

We have been inspired by a collective vision to establish a school that goes beyond conventional problem-solving through design, fostering a culture of innovation, sustainability, and consultancy. We aim to create an ecosystem where creativity converges with purpose, giving rise to groundbreaking design solutions that address contemporary challenges.

Academic Programs
The School of Design at IIT Jodhpur offers a first-of-its-kind program in any IIT, the MDes in XR Design will address the growing need of the industry to create useful, engaging, and socially relevant experiences that extend the real world or live entirely in the virtual, in areas such as healthcare, entertainment, and education.

XR Design Program: Immerse yourself in the intersection of imagination, technology, and impact with the Extended Reality (XR) Design program at IIT Jodhpur. This cutting-edge program prepares you to become a pioneer in the dynamic world of Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), and Mixed Reality (MR) design.

Dive into crafting immersive experiences that push the boundaries of user engagement and address real-world challenges.

The MDes in XR Design program's curriculum focuses on hands-on learning, equipping students with:

Technical mastery: Gain expertise in VR/AR/MR design and development tools, 3D modelling and animation, user interface design, and more.

Design thinking: Develop the skills to empathize with users, identify needs, and iterate on innovative solutions.

Storytelling and narrative design: Craft captivating narratives that resonate with audiences and leave a lasting impact.

Collaborative spirit: Work alongside peers and faculty, including prominent XR figures, to bring your ideas to life through collaborative projects.

Discover the boundless potential of XR Design. From creating virtual training simulations to designing interactive art installations and revolutionizing retail with AR experiences, the opportunities are vast. XR Design extends beyond technology; it involves understanding its profound human impact.

Through our program, you'll learn to navigate ethical considerations, champion accessibility, and empower users from diverse backgrounds, ensuring meaningful engagement and lasting impact.

Embark on this transformative journey and become a visionary leader in the burgeoning world of XR Design. School of Design at IIT Jodhpur awaits your creativity and passion to shape the future of immersive experiences.

The Design Pod
View All



Home
Centers of Excellence
Academic Programs
Laboratories
Research
People
Students
Newsletter
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
School of Liberal Arts
Welcome image in Sola 

Welcome to The School of Liberal Arts

Vision
The vision of the School of Liberal Arts is to emerge as a forerunner in Liberal Arts education. We believe in a novel, open, futuristic, trans-disciplinary, and inclusive liberal humanist approach, that not only engages with the human, the non-human, and the planetary, but also recognizes and amplifies the diverse possibilities and potentials of human-technology interfaces as both agents and sites for social change’ (SoLA Vision Document, Annexure 1, pg. 17). The SoLA will have a broader vision, seeking to break the silos created by disciplinary boundaries and reimagining the educational structure. Through an open approach it will strive to equip and enable students for the challenge of the future, while turning them into global citizens and able thinkers with an awareness of the needs and demands of contemporary society. The goals of SoLA will include:

To engage in foundational as well as socially relevant and benevolent research in the areas of Liberal Arts, to aid and guide the technologies developed to bring solutions for constructive
Read More
Mission
The SoLA at IIT Jodhpur has been founded on the principles that quality education in the Liberal Arts is a primary requisite for solving the multidimensional challenges that our current and future generations face. In operationalizing this core principle, the research, pedagogy, and outreach at the SoLA will be life-cantered with a particular emphasis on recognizing and amplifying disciplinary intersections in the Creative Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences and Technologies. To achieve this goal, the SoLA will have the following objectives:

Message From The Head

The School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) at IIT Jodhpur, established in 2022, evolved from the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS), which had its inception in the year 2015. This is a critical milestone for a young department and represents our consistent improvement in academics and research. In accordance with the future-driven vision of IIT Jodhpur, the change in name signifies a change in orientation. The newly established School promotes the idea of transformation by breaking the traditional silos, and through multidisciplinary, transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary means, making an active intervention that will strengthen the existing research ecosystem of the institute.

Through the courses and programs offered by our School, we encourage students to become professionals whose practice and research bridge the gaps between the humanistic, the social, the environmental, and the technological domains. SoLA’s flagship program is the two-year MSc in Computational Social Sciences (CSS) with a specialization in two tracks – Computational Economics and Computational Sociology.

To promote a more nuanced dialogue between STEM and social sciences, the school also offers interdisciplinary cross-institute courses for engineering students at undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels.

The faculty of our school are distinguished academics, with rich intellectual capital who combine academic excellence with pedagogical innovations that represent their dedication and commitment to the vision of the School and IIT Jodhpur.

I invite you to learn more about our School and to be part of our journey as we foster humanitarian values, diversity, inclusiveness, a passion for learning and building a culture of excellence in education and research.

Highlights
View All
Quick Access
Newsletter
Student Achievements
Admissions
Placement Brochure
News & Events
Achievements



Home
About SME
Programs
Admissions
People
Students
Corporate
Outreach
COE-IP
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
MBA Universe RANKING, SME RANKED AMONG TOP 50 B-SCHOOLS

Welcome to School of Management & Entrepreneurship
The School of Management and Entrepreneurship (SME) at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur is a dynamic and forward-thinking school that offers a distinctive blend of technology-driven management education. Established with the aim of integrating technological advancements into the world of business, SME is designed to equip students with the skills needed to navigate the rapidly changing business landscape. At the heart of SME IIT Jodhpur is a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary education, combining the best of both management and technology. The school offers a unique MBA Technology program that goes beyond traditional business education by incorporating a deep understanding of modern technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), data science, blockchain, and digital transformation. This approach ensures that students are well-prepared to face the challenges of a business world increasingly shaped by technological disruptions. The MBA curriculum covers essential management subjects such as operations, marketing, strategy, finance, entrepreneurship, and human resources, while simultaneously introducing students to cutting-edge technological concepts and their applications in business.

One of the unique aspects of the SME is its focus on practical, project-based learning. We encourages students to work on real-world problems, engaging with live projects, case studies, and industry collaborations to apply their knowledge. This hands-on approach not only helps in developing critical thinking skills but also prepares students for the complex problem-solving tasks they will encounter in their professional careers. The experiential learning process is further enhanced by opportunities to collaborate with industry leaders, ensuring that students are attuned to the latest trends and challenges in the business world. The school places a strong emphasis on innovation and entrepreneurship, recognizing the growing importance of these areas in today’s economy. SME IIT Jodhpur provides students with various platforms to develop their entrepreneurial ideas, including access to incubators, innovation labs, and mentorship from experienced entrepreneurs and industry professionals. By providing the necessary resources and guidance, SME helps budding entrepreneurs transform their ideas into viable business ventures.

The faculty at SME IIT Jodhpur consists of experienced professionals and academics with a strong background in both teaching and industry practice. Faculty members at the school are involved in cutting-edge research in areas like digital transformation, innovation ecosystems, human capital management, neuro-marketing, and entrepreneurship in social and community settings. The faculty’s diverse experience allows them to bring fresh perspectives into the classroom, while their ongoing research keeps them at the forefront of current business trends and technological advancements.

By combining core management principles with a strong focus on technology and innovation, SME prepares its students to become leaders in the evolving business world. The emphasis on experiential learning, entrepreneurship, and interdisciplinary research makes SME an ideal destination for those looking to excel in fields where technology, business, and society intersect. With a commitment to shaping future leaders who are not only proficient in management but also driven by innovation and ethical leadership, SME IIT Jodhpur is establishing itself as a premier school in the realm of business education in India.

Spotlight
Spotlight
Important links
CCCD @ IITJ
Recruitment
Correspondence
RTI
Tenders
Techscape
Contact
Old Website
NCCR Portal
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Donations
Web Policy
Web Information Manager
Feedback
CERT-IN
Help
NIRF
Internal Committee
Intranet Links
IIT Jodhpur Facebook Page
IIT Jodhpur Twitter Page
IIT Jodhpur You tube Channel
IIT Jodhpur Instagram Page
IIT Jodhpur Linkedin Page
G20 India 2023
75 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF)
Vidya Lakshmi Fulfilling Educational Aspirations
National Commission for Women (NCW) Helpline
National Anti-Ragging Monitoring Agency
india.gov.in National portal of India
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation, IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)

For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM.

Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM
arrow_downward️





IIT Jodhpur Home Page
  A+ A A-   

   Sitemap
Home
People
About
Campus Life
Career services & Wellbeing
Events
Contact
Home page image for office of students

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome To The Office of Students
The Office of Students acts as a link between students, student facilities, faculty and the administration of IIT Jodhpur. The sole motive of the Office is to create an atmosphere that promotes personal and academic development of students by organizing various activities and programs and providing them necessary support, thereby enhancing the overall student experience during their tenure at IIT Jodhpur. The Office is headed by the Associate Dean (Students) and its activities are coordinated by Assistant Registrar (Students), Superintendent (Students), Project Staff and Officers.

Scope
Since its inception, the Office of Students has been working extensively towards integration of activities by streamlining various processes. The core purviews of the Office of Students may be categorized under the following:- 

Administration : The Office corresponds with the Ministries/Government agencies regarding various scholarships, workshops, events, conferences etc; disbursal of Teaching Assistantship, conducting orientation program for new students, issuance of various certificates namely Bonafide certificate, No Objection Certificate, Character Certificate etc.
Academics : The Office has launched two non-graded credit courses on “Social Connect & Responsibility” and “Performing Arts” from the academic year 2019-2020. The aim of launching these courses is to help the incoming students to connect socially and explore their potential that will in turn shape their overall personality
Student Activities : Student Activities that form a major domain under the Office range from but are not limited to, Gymkhana Activities, Counseling Services, Alumni Relations and Placements and Internships.
Outreach Programs : Various outreach programs are organized by the Office with the aim of creating awareness about various Government/Private schemes that can be beneficial to the students. A few recent outreach programs to mention are; the CII workshop on Prime Minister's Fellowship for Doctoral Research and the visit & discussion with Mr. Naval Jit Kapoor, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs regarding scholarship schemes and grievance redressal.
Responsibilities
The responsibilities of Office of Students include the following:-

Disbursement of Teaching Assistantship, providing guidance for students regarding various state and national level scholarships, fee remissions for SC/ ST/EWS students.	 
Effectuating various workshops, non-graded courses etc.
Coordinating and supervising student gymkhana activities under 7 different societies.
Enthusing students to conduct and participate in cultural events. Rendering Support to students in organizing various festivals like IGNUS, Varchas, Nimble, Spandan and various other cultural/literary events like SPICMACAY programs.
Facilitating and overseeing Student Election process, and working with the Elected Students' Representatives on various issues concerning the students during their period of stay at IIT Jodhpur	 
Managing student hostels and mess/dining facilities, and other amenities within the campus
Guiding and preparing students for internships & placements. Organizing training programs to make the students employable and equip them with the skills essential to build a rewarding career for themselves.
Constantly working towards student's wellbeing through counseling services and helping them to achieve higher levels of maturity and motivation
Key Functionaries
Ankita Sharma
Ankita Sharma
Dean of Students Affairs (DOSA)





Student Wellbeing Committee
Mental health is a state of mental well-being that enables people to cope with the stresses of life, realise their abilities, learn well and work well, and contribute to their community... Mental health is a basic human right. And it is crucial to personal, community and socio-economic development." (World Health Organization, 2024). It is as important as physical health, because both are connected through the body and its nervous system and are affected by environmental factors. Just as one would reach out to a doctor for a physical ailment, similarly, one should not hesitate to contact a Professional (Counsellor) for psychological problems.

Our Motto
The upcoming years of your stay at IIT Jodhpur will give your life a new direction both academically and personally. As the time passes, there will be various challenges waiting for you. We, the Student Wellbeing Committee is devoted to providing personal guidance and necessary resources to students to deal with all these challenges. The team tries to ensure that IITJ is not just an institute, but a home away from home for you

Info
Important Links

Faculty Advisors
Counsellors Team
UG Team
PG Team
General Queries
Discord Server
Instagram
Telegram
Facebook
PHC Contact no. : +91 291 280 1190
Announcements
We are excited to launch our newsletter Aasmaan.
For Dates and Intructions for registration Click Here
In case of any queries feel free to contact Our Team
IIT Jodhpur is a ragging free campus. The Institute strictly adheres to the government anti ragging policy.
Get in touch with us

NH 65, Karwad, Jodhpur

Rajasthan

+91-291-2801906

Mon - Fri, 10:00-17:00

Email us at

wellbeing@iitj.ac.in

Direction toward us

SWC - IITJ
IIT Jodhpur Student Wellbeing Committee team will be happy to help you anytime.

Join our freshers' forum:

Click here to "watch videos about developing a positive attitude and mental awareness"
     
© 2022 Copyright: Student Wellbeing Committee - IIT Jodhpur





Training & Placement Office
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Home 
Academics 
Students 
Recruiter 
Forms 
Training & Placement Office Team 
Login 
logo
Training & Placement Office
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Recruiter’s Corner
Student’s Corner
Brochure
Placement & Interships

2024-25

Open
About Us
We, the Training and Placement Office aim to create an encouraging atmosphere for students by providing them ample prospects of building competencies in sync with their dream careers, thereby ensuring a smooth landing into the professional world. With innovative training methods, skill assessment programs, and a continuous assessment of student interests, Training and Placement Office provides services and resources that assist students in competence development, career planning, and employment search. Training and Placement Office has a dedicated team of staff & students volunteers to assist the talent acqusition team for the smooth conduct of campus recruitment process. Read More

We extend a cordial invitation to you to participate in Campus Placement Drive for the season 2024-25 and hope that you will find the best talent you were looking for.

Director
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director
Recent News
Career Development Cell invites all the esteemed recruiters for "Placement & Internship Season 2024-25". Read more on Linkedin.
Career Development Cell - IIT Jodhpur congratulates all the outgoing students placed in prestigious companies !!!
Office of T&P, IIT Jodhpur extends sincere gratitude to Bharat Electronics Ltd. for conducting the campus drive for 2024 passing out batch
Office of T&P welcomes ICICI Bank team for campus placement drive for 2025 batch
Office of T&P welcomes Reliance team for campus drive for 2025 passing out batch
Congratulations to students of 2025 passing out selected in ICICI Bank Ltd.
Office of T&P welcomes HCL Tech team for campus placement drive for 2025 batch
Office of Training & Placement Welcomes HPCL team for campus visit on 14.11.2024
Past Recruiters
TPO IITJ
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 62 Nagaur Road
Karwar 342030, Jodhpur District
Phone: +91 291 2801155
Phone: +91 291 2801154
Handles: 
Email:
 placement@iitj.ac.in
Downloads
JAF
IAF
Brochure
Quick Links
Placement registration link
Placement Statistics
Meet our Team
External Links
IIT Jodhpur
Student Gymkhana
Designed & Maintained by Office of Training and Placement, IIT Jodhpur
Copyright © TPO, IITJ 2026.





Sign Up / Login
About Us 
News & Stories 
Batchmates 
Find Alumni 
Careers 
Reya Awards 
Gallery 
Alumni Chapters 
Alumni Day- Jan. 2025 & Dashak 3.0
Interaction Between Esteemed Alumni and Students

Alumni Day - Jan. 2026 & Dashak 4.0
Proud Moments: Felicitation of Our Alumni

Alumni Day - Jan. 2026 & Dashak 4.0
Felicitation of the Director, IIT Jodhpur by the Alumni

Alumni Day - Jan. 2026 & Dashak 4.0
Interactive Session Between Students and Alumni

Welcome to Alumni Relations, IIT Jodhpur – Connecting, Engaging, and Celebrating Our Global Alumni Community

Welcome to Alumni Relations, IIT Jodhpur – Connecting, Engaging, and Celebrating Our Global Alumni Community

Welcome to Alumni Relations, IIT Jodhpur – Connecting, Engaging, and Celebrating Our Global Alumni Community

Welcome to Alumni Relations, IIT Jodhpur – Connecting, Engaging, and Celebrating Our Global Alumni Community
Reconnect with your Alma mater

Alumni Day- Jan. 2025 & Dashak 3.0
Strengthening Bonds: Institute Officials and Esteemed Alumni

Alumni Day- Jan. 2025 & Dashak 3.0
Alumni Felicitation Moments

Alumni Day- Jan. 2025 & Dashak 3.0
Interaction Between Esteemed Alumni and Students

Alumni Day - Jan. 2026 & Dashak 4.0
Proud Moments: Felicitation of Our Alumni

Get Engaged

Become Batch Ambassador
Help us to reach out to your classmates by becoming Batch Ambassador

Spread the Word
Share this platform on your facebook timeline so that all your friends are able to join.

Write a Testimonial
Write a testimonial if you wish to share experiences at institute and want to make it known to the world

Share Career Opportunity
Is your organization hiring new talent? Share the career opportunity with huge talent pool within Institute
Submit Your Story

Story: Friends for Life
Share your friendship story with us and get it featured on Alumni Network’s exclusive publication “Friend For Life".

Story: My First Job
Share your First Job Experience story with us that we can publish for all alumni and faculty to see

Share Your Entrepreneurial Story
Share Your Entrepreneurial Journey Story and Inspire All Fellow Alumni!

Creative Stories
Selected stories will be highlighted on the alumni portal for all alumni to see.
REYA Awards 2025


Dr. Kedar Vaidya, B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering
Class of 2015

Dr. Divya Sharma
Class of 2019, PhD. Computer Science & Engineering

Dr. Anuj Kumar
Class of 2014, B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering

Dr. Vivek Sharma
Class of 2013, B.Tech. Electrical Engineering

Dr. Swathi Manda
Class of 2012, B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering

MR. GURJOT SINGH
Class of 2015 B.Tech., System Science

MR. LAL CHAND BISU
Class of 2012 B.Tech., Electrical Engineering

MR. SHIVANSH CHAUDHARY
Class of 2012 - B.Tech., Electrical Engineering

Explore Alumni Platform

Alumni Directory
View Complete Directory & connect with alumni in your Domain

Your Batchmates
View Our Exclusive Batchmates Directory

Alumni in your City
Find Aumni living in your city & be a part of meetups in your cities.

Your Alumni Profile
Complete your Alumni Profile & be recognized in alumni community
IIT Jodhpur Gallery

Alumni Day 2026 & Dashak 4.0

Alumni Day 2023 & Dashak 1.0

Alumni Day 2024 & Dashak 2.0

Hyderabad Chapter Meet

Office of Alumni Relations
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar 342030
Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India
0291 280 1117
office_alumnirelations@iitj.ac.in
alumni.iitj.ac.in
    
Reach Out
Your Name *
Your Name
Your Email *
Your Email
Phone No.

+91 India
Country Code
Phone No.
Your Message *
Your Message
Submit
Home
About
Contact
sitemap
Terms
Privacy
Powered by  

We Value Your Privacy
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyze site traffic. By continuing, you consent to our use of cookies.

Accept all
Reject all
Manage Individual preferences





Home
Applicant's Qualifications
Scale of Pay
General Instructions to Applicants
Apply for Faculty Positions
IIT Jodhpur
Faculty Positions
Home page image for FP

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to Faculty Positions Portal
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (IIT Jodhpur) invites online applications from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for full-time faculty positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor to conduct teaching and research in the following Departments and Schools.

Departments
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Chemistry Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Mathematics Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Physics Engineering
Aerospace Engineering
Economics
Energy and Automotive Engineering
Environment & Sustainability Engineering
Schools
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science (SAIDE)
School of Design
(SOD)
School of Liberal Arts
(SOLA)
School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME)
The Institute cordially invites interested candidates to consider choosing IIT Jodhpur as their venue to realize. their dreams to serve the nation, through their competencies that would help to address the technology grand challenges of the nation.

Use the following link to apply

Click Here To Apply Online





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
Home
Faculty
Why Pursue a Career @ IIT Jodhpur
Why Pursue a Career @ IIT Jodhpur
There are many reasons to choose IIT Jodhpur to build a career. A few salient ones are:

Scholarship through teaching-learning and research-creation drive us. Faculty Members pursue their own teaching and research interests. IIT Jodhpur invested significantly and acquired state of the art material characterization sophisticated instrumentation.
IIT Jodhpur has chosen to make select impactful technological contributions to the nation. This umbrella technology development approach involves end-to-end work of Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students with backgrounds in Sciences, Humanities & Social Sciences, and Engineering. The select domains include:
Arid Zone Technologies: Solar Energy, Water, and Smart Buildings;
Critical Technologies: Materials, Components and Systems;
Health Care Technologies: Diagnostic devices, and Biological solutions to health care; and
Automotive Technologies: Commercial Vehicles
In July 2014, IIT Jodhpur launched all new Industry Immersion B.Tech. Program - a flagship technical educational program that will enable IIT Jodhpur Students and Faculty Members to keep meet the needs of Technology Industry and Nation. It is a blend of classroom instructions in Academia and shop floor experience in the Industry, through immersion inside the Technology Industry. Learning-by-doing, experiential and cooperative learning, working on live assignments under the tutelage of industry professionals, and engaging faculty members and students in joint R&D projects with Industry, are some of the key features of Blended B.Tech. Program. This model is being actively considered for Masters and Doctoral Programs also.
Jodhpur is secluded adequately from the burden of a megapolis or a metropolitan city and hence offers the much needed quiet to do focused academic work. Also, the city of Jodhpur is itself an active tourist city that is friendly, but quiet.
IIT Jodhpur is working towards a state-of-the-art permanent campus located ~20 km away from the center of the city.
City of Jodhpur is not a big city. With just about 12.7 Lakh Population ( a sizeable part of it is through Military and Paramilitary Forces), the city is calm and friendly. One striking feature of the city is that there is No Traffic Jam at any time of the day in any part of the city!!
Jodhpur is well connected by air and trains to Delhi and Mumbai, and by train and road to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Udaipur, Jaisalmer, and Ahmedabad.
The city of Jodhpur has a number of other prominent academic and R&D organizations in addition to the Jai Narayan Vyas University (formerly Jodhpur University). These include:
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur,
National Law University, Jodhpur,
National Institute of Fashion Technology, Jodhpur,
Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, Jodhpur,
Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur,
Footwear Design and Development Institute, Jodhpur, and
Defence Laboratory, Jodhpur (DRDO).           Of these, the first six are all new, and there are opportunities for appointment of Spouse of a Faculty Member, based on his/her qualifications and relevant experience.
Jodhpur is a city of Lawyers and Chartered Accountants. Especially with the High Court of the State of Rajasthan located in the city, Jodhpur has ample professional opportunities for spouses with backgrounds in these subjects.
Some things we do for our new Faculty Members
The Institute will:

Provide transit accommodation, immediately on arrival;
Reimburse
Telephone bills up to Rs. 1,500 per month,
Medical expenses of self and dependents,
Education allowance for first two children up to Class 12, and
Relocation expenses up to Rs.1.5 Lakhs from any place in India or abroad;
Offer
Research Initiation Grant within the initial period of joining, up to Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty Members in Sciences and Engineering, and up to Rs. 5 Lakhs to those in Humanities and Social Sciences; and
Cumulative Professional Development Allowance of Rs. 3 Lakhs once every 3 years;
Contribute towards New Pension Scheme of Government of India;
Reward up to Rs 10,000/- per month for three years for INSA Young Scientist and INAE Young Engineer awardees; and
Facilitate soft loan.
Please Click Here for a PDF version of this section.





Home
People
About Director
Contact
Welcome image in Office of Director

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to The Office of Director
The Office of the Director at the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is the central hub of leadership and governance, responsible for steering the institute towards its mission of excellence in education, research, and innovation. Our mission is to uphold and enhance the institute’s core values, ensuring the highest standards of academic and operational integrity.

The Director provides visionary leadership, setting strategic priorities and fostering a culture of continuous improvement and academic rigor. Our office oversees the implementation of policies, strategic planning, and resource allocation to ensure that IIT Jodhpur remains at the forefront of technological and scientific advancement.

We work closely with faculty, staff, students, and external stakeholders to promote a collaborative and inclusive environment. Key initiatives include advancing interdisciplinary research, expanding global partnerships, and enhancing the overall student experience through comprehensive support services and state-of-the-art facilities.

The Office of the Director is dedicated to fostering innovation and entrepreneurship, supporting initiatives that translate research into real-world applications and societal benefits. We also prioritize sustainability and social responsibility, integrating these principles into the institute’s strategic framework.

Our commitment to excellence is reflected in our continuous efforts to attract and retain outstanding talent, provide cutting-edge infrastructure, and cultivate a vibrant intellectual community.

Director Of IIT Jodhpur
Director Of IIT
Professor Avinash Kumar Agarwal took over the charge of Director, IIT Jodhpur on 1 May 2024. He obtained his Undergraduate Degree in Mechanical Engineering (1994) from Malviya Regional Engineering College, Jaipur and his MTech (Energy, 1996) and PhD (Energy, 1999) from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi. After his Post-Doctoral Fellowship (1999 – 2001) at the ERC, UW, Madison, USA, he returned to India in 2001 and joined IIT Kanpur. He was a Visiting Professor at the University of Loughborough, UK; Photonics Institute, University of Vienna, Austria; Hanyang University and KAIST, South Korea. Prof. Agarwal is interested in research in IC engines, combustion, conventional and alternative fuels, Methanol/ DME/ Hydrogen/ HCNG fuelled engine development, LCA and TCO analyses, Fuel sprays, Lubricating oil tribology, optical diagnostics, laser ignition, HCCI, particulates and emission control, and large bore engines.

He has developed laser-fired hydrogen and CNG engines in automotive sizes and developed the first electronic fuel injection system equipped with a locomotive engine for Indian Railways. Currently, Prof. Agarwal is developing Methanol and DME-fuelled engines/ vehicles for the automotive/ agricultural sectors. 

Read More





Home
People
Downloads
Contact
Welcome image in Administration

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to Office of Administration
The Office of Administration at IIT Jodhpur ensures the efficient functioning of the Institute’s administrative ecosystem through its various divisions/activities directly or with the help of Professor In-Charges (PIC’s) given as follows:

 Establishment (Non-Faculty) - Managing service matters related to non-teaching staff.

 Non-Faculty Recruitment – Handling end-to-end recruitment processes for non-teaching positions.

 Health Center – Ensuring quality healthcare services for the campus community.

 Campus Security and Transport – Overseeing campus safety and transport logistics.

 Logistics and Facilities – Managing day-to-day campus services, infrastructure maintenance, and operational support.

 Green Cell – Driving sustainability initiatives and environmental stewardship on campus.

 Visitor’s Hostels and Allied Services – Coordinating hospitality services for guests, visitors, and campus events.

 Internal Audit – Ensuring internal controls, compliance, and financial accountability.

 Store and Purchase – Managing procurement processes and inventory control for efficient resource utilization.

 Administrative Manpower Hiring for the Project.

The office functions with the aim of ensuring transparency in the process, efficiency, accountability, and excellence.

Working closely with different offices/sections, the office aims to deliver high-quality and timely services. It also frames and implements policies to foster a responsive culture to support institutional goals in education, development, and the well-being of the campus community.

Dean Of Administration
Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari-Dean Of Administration
Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari

Email : doad@iitj.ac.in

Phone: 0291 280 1032

Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari assumed the office as the first Dean of Administration (DOAD) of IIT Jodhpur on 15th June 2024. DOAD position was created in 2024 as part of administrative reforms for efficient functioning.

Prof. Tiwari is currently Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering. Prior to joining IIT Jodhpur as a faculty member in 2011, Prof. Tiwari had worked as a Postdoctoral Fellow in School of ECE at Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, USA, for 3 years (2008-2011). He had done his Ph.D. from EE Department, IIT Bombay from 2003 to 2008, during which he had also worked at NTU Singapore for about 7 months. Prof. Tiwari is a Senior Member of IEEE and serves as selected member of technical committees on “Flexible Electronics and Displays” and “Electronic Materials” of IEEE Electron Devices Society. Prof. Tiwari was Visvesvaraya Young Faculty Research Fellow of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India, for 2018-2023. He was part of Indian Delegate to attend Indo-German Frontiers of Engineering Symposium in Bremen, Germany (2022) organized by Alexander von Humboldt Foundation and Department of Science and Technology, followed by CONNECT Follow-up Programme Award by Humboldt Foundation and IGSTC-CONNECT Plus Award to visit and work in Germany in 2023. At IIT Jodhpur, he leads the Flexible Large Area Microelectronics (FLAME) Research Group, with focus towards biodegradable electronics. He was recently conferred with “Institute Award for Research Excellence-2024, Senior Researcher Award (Engineering)” from IIT Jodhpur. He has co-authored over 170 research articles, including more than 85 in journals of high repute with many in IEEE, ACS, and Wiley Journals.

Read more





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
Home
About IITJ
Institute
Vision and Mission
Vision and Mission
 Vision
A future-driven institute for nurturing excellence of thought; creating, preserving, and imparting knowledge; and using transformational technologies/interventions with a multidisciplinary approach for responding to societal challenges and aspirations.



 Mission
Foster humanitarian values, passion for learning, and creativity in faculty and students
Move towards a high-quality, futuristic educational and research ecosystem
Develop socially responsible faculty, students, and future leaders, committed to creating a self-reliant India
Catalyze a professional internal culture, along with enabling infrastructure and ancillary services
Forge effective national as well as international collaboration and partnership with industry and academia for diverse purposes and activities.


 Goals
Curriculum: To assimilate balanced, broad-based, as well as specialized education in all curricula with opportunities for different kinds of students and their interests.
Pedagogy: To establish systems for dynamic development, implementation, and evaluation of futuristic pedagogy, including blended-hybrid teaching and experiential learning.
Research: Have a globally engaged research ecosystem with state-of-the-art facilities in place, for attaining leadership in research on academic, social, national, and industrial fronts while capitalizing on emerging and in-demand opportunities.
Outreach: To be the Institute of Choice for a lifelong learning journey of working professionals, alumni, and the community.
Institutional Collaboration: Have an efficient platform in place for forging impactful partnerships with academia, research institutes, business organizations, civil society, governments, and other agencies across the world for contributing to larger goals for humanity.
Industry Connect: Ensure ease of collaboration with industry for joint research/ projects, IPR development, technology transfer, and encouraging entrepreneurship/ startups, along with efficient supporting infrastructure and systems.
Financial Plan: Set up innovative resource mobilization mechanisms and expenditure management systems, embedded in the internal budgetary processes, to have ample resources/ funds for actualizing the institute’s vision and goals.
Infrastructure: The institute will have secure, evolving, futuristic digital and physical infrastructure and ancillary services to meet all its needs, along with knowledge infrastructure for supporting learning and enabling skill development.
Student Life Cycle: Students will find at IIT Jodhpur (i) a vibrant learning environment, with opportunities for excelling in curricular, co-curricular and extracurricular activities, (ii) an effective career development process for their successful initiation to the professions of their choice and (iii) a strong linkage with alumni through regular interactions, support for their lifelong learning and professional development; and enabling their active participation as a stakeholder in the affairs of the institute.
Agile Organization: Ensure that IITJ continues to be an agile organization for both stability and dynamism as a network of teams with a people-centric culture that operates through fast but considered decision cycles, which are enabled by technology, and guided by a powerful common purpose to co-create value for all stakeholders of the institute.





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Home
About IITJ
Institute
History
History
Way back in 1946, visionary leaders in the country conceived the idea of establishing Higher Technical Institutes to support post-war industrial development in India. A committee, headed by Nalini Ranjan Sarkar, recommended the establishment of these institutes in various parts of India. The first Indian Institute of Technology was founded in May 1950 at Kharagpur. Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, at the first convocation of IIT Kharagpur in 1956, clarified in his address that these institutes of technology would help meet the technological challenges of the nation.

During 1959-1960, four IITs were established at Bombay, Delhi, Kanpur, and Madras. Subsequently, on 15 September 1961, the Parliament of India passed an act known as the Institutes of Technology Act, declaring IIT Kharagpur as an institute of national importance. Also, IIT Kharagpur was given the status of an autonomous university. Thereafter, IIT Guwahati started in 1994, and the then University of Roorkee was given the status of an IIT (now called IIT Roorkee) in 2001.

The establishment of eight more IITs across the country began with a decision of the Cabinet, which was announced by the Minister of Human Resource Development on 28 March 2008. IIT Bhubaneswar, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT Hyderabad, IIT Jodhpur (earlier called IIT Rajasthan), IIT Patna, and IIT Ropar began functioning in 2008, while two others, IIT Indore and IIT Mandi, commenced their sessions in 2009.

During the past decades, since 1956, IITs have become a hallmark of quality technology undergraduate education internationally, attributed largely to the ambience of quality academics. The endeavor at IIT Jodhpur is to uphold this brand image, which has been meticulously built over the last 60 years, with a renewed focus on producing world-class, technology-driven graduates who will contribute to the nation's development.





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
Home
About IITJ
Infrastructure
Sustainability Policy
Sustainability Policy
The unique master plan of IIT Jodhpur conceptualizes the workings of all parts of the campus as an interlocking, integral network of complex dynamic systems, like the metabolism of a living organism.

This meta-system shall be actively studied and monitored (partly to generate intelligent control instructions and partly to mine data) and, in that sense, is a settlement evolving through trials and tests, a “Living Laboratory”.

The ideas for this “Smart Intelligent Eco-campus” encompass the ideals of social, economic, and environmental sustainability, and integrate aspects of landscape and biodiversity, food, water, and waste, solid waste, mobility, energy, and ICT to create an intricate life-like system of campus metabolism

Landscape
Berms act as signature bounding elements containing compact desert settlements. They mitigate noise, dust, and heat, and are part of the de-desertification strategy along with green buffer zones, green infrastructure, compact settlement patterns, and east-west streets.

This campus is a sustainable oasis in a challenging desert context, providing a protected habitat for flora and fauna (including humans). It rejuvenates the site by providing biodiversity corridors to allow native species to have contiguous habitat and passage across the site and within the region than being isolated in island sanctuaries in a human settlement.

The landscape plan aims at minimizing its water requirement by using recycled water. The campus uses hardy native species of plants, conserving water and improving soil moisture, while requiring little upkeep and easy disease management.

The landscape is designed to absorb stormwater even during extreme rainfall incidents and prevent erosion or flooding.

The landscape provides open space for interaction between students, faculty, local communities, artists, etc., and for art installations and public spaces, and also suitable green cover for parked vehicles.

Water
In this extremely water-scarce area, all the roof/ surface runoff is stored in cisterns. The campus can be made a zero water-demanding campus by storing all the runoff from areas on the ground in large cisterns so as not to merge with the saline aquifer (which cannot be tapped due to its being located in a distressed zone). Therefore, while a possibility, the targeted zero-water regime is proposed to be modified to create a very low water regime as below.

The water consumption of this campus is reduced notably with efficient fixtures, semi-automated irrigation systems, native plantation, extensive recycling and reuse of sewage, rainwater harvesting, storage and recharge, and encouraging a low water lifestyle.

Taking into account the treated water recharge for some seasons and increased rainwater recharge, this campus is a net-zero water campus. Over a period of years, as soil moisture improves and salinity of the aquifer reduces, the remainder white water needs may also be met by groundwater, thus making it an autonomous zero-water-demanding campus, provided groundwater extraction is allowed in the future.

The rainfall management system creates a very large storage capacity of roof runoff for water security.

Waste
This campus will create a zero solid waste regime by segregating waste at source and managing each stream appropriately so that the mixed waste for landfill is eliminated.

The campus will create positive value for recyclables such as paper, glass, reusable plastics and metals, isolates hazardous wastes (chemical or biological) for specialized disposal by certified recyclers, and stacks e-waste and the small quantity of mixed waste in stores for specialized disposal by progressively establishing the new Research Cluster for e-waste and mixed waste recycling and increasing this recycling capacity on site.

Energy
The energy consumption of this campus will be reduced notably with passive and traditional techniques of building integrated with renewable energy technologies, with compact building clustering, and by encouraging a low-energy lifestyle. The buildings shall be some of the most energy-efficient and low-resource-consuming buildings globally. Use of a double wall system with thermal insulation in between and at the rooftop shall reduce the heat load and reduce the energy consumption by ~20%

The spaces provide adaptive conditioned comfort for nearly all habitable areas while minimizing energy and reducing water.

Mobility
The campus segregates motorized, non-motorized vehicles (NMV), and pedestrian movement for a mobility system that provides safety, with better health and quality of life.

It demonstrates a compact development with access to all facilities within a 10-minute walk or cycling trip, and to non-motorized public transport, with adequate parking and external road connections for conventional vehicles.

Community Engagement
Traditional building techniques and skills are used to develop the structures. There is a provision for crafts and design workshops with the local community, training in modernized local building technologies, taking inspiration from traditional heritage and methods, with a fusion of traditional craft and material with futuristic systems. The Institute shall engage in interactive workshops for communicating intentions and outreach projects.

All the above features make this a near-zero emission campus, planned to provide flexible and phased expansion of all the relevant services.

Sustainability Investment Policy for IIT Jodhpur
 (135KB)





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
Home
About IITJ
Infrastructure
Campus Infrastructure
Campus Infrastructure
IIT Jodhpur has shifted to its sprawling state-of-the-art residential permanent campus on 852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 62 towards Nagaur, N-NE from the center of Jodhpur. The permanent campus has 3 parcels of land. The Institute is finalising plans for adopting one of for harvesting technologies. This new campus has been planned meticulously and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep...

The foundation stone for the permanent campus was laid on 16 April 2013 by the Hon. Union Minister for Human Resources Development (Government of India), Dr. M. M. Pallam Raju. The Permanent Campus of the Institute is being constructed. Work to build Phase 1 of the campus began in March 2015. When complete, it will be the first fully planned technical institute campus in India. More importantly, it will be an international exemplar of sustainability with strategies for ensuring NET ZERO ENERGY, WATER, and WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are:

Walking campus, which is pedestrian-oriented and bicycle-dominant;
Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with a wireless ICT backbone (including multimedia-enabled learning spaces with flexible, shared public spaces);
Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant buildings and GRIHA LD benchmark campus (including dense desert settlement morphology, low height buildings (up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low embodied energy materials, and improved local and traditional methods);
Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection from dusty wind to arrest erosion, desertification, and building up soil moisture over time;
Rainwater harvesting, water reduction, and sewage recycling, together green the site over time; and
Segregated wastes and customized recycling
Gateway Building Welcoming to the Academic Area!!
Presently, the campus has housing for Faculty Members and Officers. Construction of houses for Staff Members is underway. Also, development of buildings for Kendriya Vidyalaya IIT Jodhpur (up to Class XII), Bank, Post Office, and Market are planned. And, it will have a Primary Health Center with hotline connections to reach the top hospitals of the city, like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, and a fully equipped ambulance service. A large parcel of the Permanent Campus (of about 182 acres) is set aside for the development of a TECHNOLOGY PARK to strengthen institute-industry interactions.

3-storey Residence on Permanent Campus
The first migrations into the campus took place during May-July 2017.

Important links
CCCD @ IITJ
Recruitment
Correspondence
RTI
Tenders
Techscape
Contact
Old Website
NCCR Portal
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Donations
Web Policy
Web Information Manager
Feedback
CERT-IN
Help
NIRF
Internal Committee
Intranet Links
IIT Jodhpur Facebook Page
IIT Jodhpur Twitter Page
IIT Jodhpur You tube Channel
IIT Jodhpur Instagram Page
IIT Jodhpur Linkedin Page
G20 India 2023
75 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF)
Vidya Lakshmi Fulfilling Educational Aspirations
National Commission for Women (NCW) Helpline
National Anti-Ragging Monitoring Agency
india.gov.in National portal of India
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation, IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)

For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM.

Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM
arrow_downward