IIT Jodhpur Home Page
  A+ A A-   

   Sitemap
Home
People
About
Campus Life
Career services & Wellbeing
Events
Contact
Home page image for office of students

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome To The Office of Students
The Office of Students acts as a link between students, student facilities, faculty and the administration of IIT Jodhpur. The sole motive of the Office is to create an atmosphere that promotes personal and academic development of students by organizing various activities and programs and providing them necessary support, thereby enhancing the overall student experience during their tenure at IIT Jodhpur. The Office is headed by the Associate Dean (Students) and its activities are coordinated by Assistant Registrar (Students), Superintendent (Students), Project Staff and Officers.

Scope
Since its inception, the Office of Students has been working extensively towards integration of activities by streamlining various processes. The core purviews of the Office of Students may be categorized under the following:- 

Administration : The Office corresponds with the Ministries/Government agencies regarding various scholarships, workshops, events, conferences etc; disbursal of Teaching Assistantship, conducting orientation program for new students, issuance of various certificates namely Bonafide certificate, No Objection Certificate, Character Certificate etc.
Academics : The Office has launched two non-graded credit courses on “Social Connect & Responsibility” and “Performing Arts” from the academic year 2019-2020. The aim of launching these courses is to help the incoming students to connect socially and explore their potential that will in turn shape their overall personality
Student Activities : Student Activities that form a major domain under the Office range from but are not limited to, Gymkhana Activities, Counseling Services, Alumni Relations and Placements and Internships.
Outreach Programs : Various outreach programs are organized by the Office with the aim of creating awareness about various Government/Private schemes that can be beneficial to the students. A few recent outreach programs to mention are; the CII workshop on Prime Minister's Fellowship for Doctoral Research and the visit & discussion with Mr. Naval Jit Kapoor, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs regarding scholarship schemes and grievance redressal.
Responsibilities
The responsibilities of Office of Students include the following:-

Disbursement of Teaching Assistantship, providing guidance for students regarding various state and national level scholarships, fee remissions for SC/ ST/EWS students.	 
Effectuating various workshops, non-graded courses etc.
Coordinating and supervising student gymkhana activities under 7 different societies.
Enthusing students to conduct and participate in cultural events. Rendering Support to students in organizing various festivals like IGNUS, Varchas, Nimble, Spandan and various other cultural/literary events like SPICMACAY programs.
Facilitating and overseeing Student Election process, and working with the Elected Students' Representatives on various issues concerning the students during their period of stay at IIT Jodhpur	 
Managing student hostels and mess/dining facilities, and other amenities within the campus
Guiding and preparing students for internships & placements. Organizing training programs to make the students employable and equip them with the skills essential to build a rewarding career for themselves.
Constantly working towards student's wellbeing through counseling services and helping them to achieve higher levels of maturity and motivation
Key Functionaries
Ankita Sharma
Ankita Sharma
Dean of Students Affairs (DOSA)





Student Wellbeing Committee
Mental health is a state of mental well-being that enables people to cope with the stresses of life, realise their abilities, learn well and work well, and contribute to their community... Mental health is a basic human right. And it is crucial to personal, community and socio-economic development." (World Health Organization, 2024). It is as important as physical health, because both are connected through the body and its nervous system and are affected by environmental factors. Just as one would reach out to a doctor for a physical ailment, similarly, one should not hesitate to contact a Professional (Counsellor) for psychological problems.

Our Motto
The upcoming years of your stay at IIT Jodhpur will give your life a new direction both academically and personally. As the time passes, there will be various challenges waiting for you. We, the Student Wellbeing Committee is devoted to providing personal guidance and necessary resources to students to deal with all these challenges. The team tries to ensure that IITJ is not just an institute, but a home away from home for you

Info
Important Links

Faculty Advisors
Counsellors Team
UG Team
PG Team
General Queries
Discord Server
Instagram
Telegram
Facebook
PHC Contact no. : +91 291 280 1190
Announcements
We are excited to launch our newsletter Aasmaan.
For Dates and Intructions for registration Click Here
In case of any queries feel free to contact Our Team
IIT Jodhpur is a ragging free campus. The Institute strictly adheres to the government anti ragging policy.
Get in touch with us

NH 65, Karwad, Jodhpur

Rajasthan

+91-291-2801906

Mon - Fri, 10:00-17:00

Email us at

wellbeing@iitj.ac.in

Direction toward us

SWC - IITJ
IIT Jodhpur Student Wellbeing Committee team will be happy to help you anytime.

Join our freshers' forum:

Click here to "watch videos about developing a positive attitude and mental awareness"
     
© 2022 Copyright: Student Wellbeing Committee - IIT Jodhpur





Training & Placement Office
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Home 
Academics 
Students 
Recruiter 
Forms 
Training & Placement Office Team 
Login 
logo
Training & Placement Office
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Recruiter’s Corner
Student’s Corner
Brochure
Placement & Interships

2024-25

Open
About Us
We, the Training and Placement Office aim to create an encouraging atmosphere for students by providing them ample prospects of building competencies in sync with their dream careers, thereby ensuring a smooth landing into the professional world. With innovative training methods, skill assessment programs, and a continuous assessment of student interests, Training and Placement Office provides services and resources that assist students in competence development, career planning, and employment search. Training and Placement Office has a dedicated team of staff & students volunteers to assist the talent acqusition team for the smooth conduct of campus recruitment process. Read More

We extend a cordial invitation to you to participate in Campus Placement Drive for the season 2024-25 and hope that you will find the best talent you were looking for.

Director
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director
Recent News
Career Development Cell invites all the esteemed recruiters for "Placement & Internship Season 2024-25". Read more on Linkedin.
Career Development Cell - IIT Jodhpur congratulates all the outgoing students placed in prestigious companies !!!
Office of T&P, IIT Jodhpur extends sincere gratitude to Bharat Electronics Ltd. for conducting the campus drive for 2024 passing out batch
Office of T&P welcomes ICICI Bank team for campus placement drive for 2025 batch
Office of T&P welcomes Reliance team for campus drive for 2025 passing out batch
Congratulations to students of 2025 passing out selected in ICICI Bank Ltd.
Office of T&P welcomes HCL Tech team for campus placement drive for 2025 batch
Office of Training & Placement Welcomes HPCL team for campus visit on 14.11.2024
Past Recruiters
TPO IITJ
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 62 Nagaur Road
Karwar 342030, Jodhpur District
Phone: +91 291 2801155
Phone: +91 291 2801154
Handles: 
Email:
 placement@iitj.ac.in
Downloads
JAF
IAF
Brochure
Quick Links
Placement registration link
Placement Statistics
Meet our Team
External Links
IIT Jodhpur
Student Gymkhana
Designed & Maintained by Office of Training and Placement, IIT Jodhpur
Copyright © TPO, IITJ 2026.





Sign Up / Login
About Us 
News & Stories 
Batchmates 
Find Alumni 
Careers 
Reya Awards 
Gallery 
Alumni Chapters 
Alumni Day- Jan. 2025 & Dashak 3.0
Interaction Between Esteemed Alumni and Students

Alumni Day - Jan. 2026 & Dashak 4.0
Proud Moments: Felicitation of Our Alumni

Alumni Day - Jan. 2026 & Dashak 4.0
Felicitation of the Director, IIT Jodhpur by the Alumni

Alumni Day - Jan. 2026 & Dashak 4.0
Interactive Session Between Students and Alumni

Welcome to Alumni Relations, IIT Jodhpur – Connecting, Engaging, and Celebrating Our Global Alumni Community

Welcome to Alumni Relations, IIT Jodhpur – Connecting, Engaging, and Celebrating Our Global Alumni Community

Welcome to Alumni Relations, IIT Jodhpur – Connecting, Engaging, and Celebrating Our Global Alumni Community

Welcome to Alumni Relations, IIT Jodhpur – Connecting, Engaging, and Celebrating Our Global Alumni Community
Reconnect with your Alma mater

Alumni Day- Jan. 2025 & Dashak 3.0
Strengthening Bonds: Institute Officials and Esteemed Alumni

Alumni Day- Jan. 2025 & Dashak 3.0
Alumni Felicitation Moments

Alumni Day- Jan. 2025 & Dashak 3.0
Interaction Between Esteemed Alumni and Students

Alumni Day - Jan. 2026 & Dashak 4.0
Proud Moments: Felicitation of Our Alumni

Get Engaged

Become Batch Ambassador
Help us to reach out to your classmates by becoming Batch Ambassador

Spread the Word
Share this platform on your facebook timeline so that all your friends are able to join.

Write a Testimonial
Write a testimonial if you wish to share experiences at institute and want to make it known to the world

Share Career Opportunity
Is your organization hiring new talent? Share the career opportunity with huge talent pool within Institute
Submit Your Story

Story: Friends for Life
Share your friendship story with us and get it featured on Alumni Network’s exclusive publication “Friend For Life".

Story: My First Job
Share your First Job Experience story with us that we can publish for all alumni and faculty to see

Share Your Entrepreneurial Story
Share Your Entrepreneurial Journey Story and Inspire All Fellow Alumni!

Creative Stories
Selected stories will be highlighted on the alumni portal for all alumni to see.
REYA Awards 2025


Dr. Kedar Vaidya, B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering
Class of 2015

Dr. Divya Sharma
Class of 2019, PhD. Computer Science & Engineering

Dr. Anuj Kumar
Class of 2014, B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering

Dr. Vivek Sharma
Class of 2013, B.Tech. Electrical Engineering

Dr. Swathi Manda
Class of 2012, B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering

MR. GURJOT SINGH
Class of 2015 B.Tech., System Science

MR. LAL CHAND BISU
Class of 2012 B.Tech., Electrical Engineering

MR. SHIVANSH CHAUDHARY
Class of 2012 - B.Tech., Electrical Engineering

Explore Alumni Platform

Alumni Directory
View Complete Directory & connect with alumni in your Domain

Your Batchmates
View Our Exclusive Batchmates Directory

Alumni in your City
Find Aumni living in your city & be a part of meetups in your cities.

Your Alumni Profile
Complete your Alumni Profile & be recognized in alumni community
IIT Jodhpur Gallery

Alumni Day 2026 & Dashak 4.0

Alumni Day 2023 & Dashak 1.0

Alumni Day 2024 & Dashak 2.0

Hyderabad Chapter Meet

Office of Alumni Relations
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar 342030
Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India
0291 280 1117
office_alumnirelations@iitj.ac.in
alumni.iitj.ac.in
    
Reach Out
Your Name *
Your Name
Your Email *
Your Email
Phone No.

+91 India
Country Code
Phone No.
Your Message *
Your Message
Submit
Home
About
Contact
sitemap
Terms
Privacy
Powered by  

We Value Your Privacy
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyze site traffic. By continuing, you consent to our use of cookies.

Accept all
Reject all
Manage Individual preferences





Home
Applicant's Qualifications
Scale of Pay
General Instructions to Applicants
Apply for Faculty Positions
IIT Jodhpur
Faculty Positions
Home page image for FP

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to Faculty Positions Portal
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (IIT Jodhpur) invites online applications from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for full-time faculty positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor to conduct teaching and research in the following Departments and Schools.

Departments
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Chemistry Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Mathematics Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Physics Engineering
Aerospace Engineering
Economics
Energy and Automotive Engineering
Environment & Sustainability Engineering
Schools
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science (SAIDE)
School of Design
(SOD)
School of Liberal Arts
(SOLA)
School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME)
The Institute cordially invites interested candidates to consider choosing IIT Jodhpur as their venue to realize. their dreams to serve the nation, through their competencies that would help to address the technology grand challenges of the nation.

Use the following link to apply

Click Here To Apply Online





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
Home
Faculty
Why Pursue a Career @ IIT Jodhpur
Why Pursue a Career @ IIT Jodhpur
There are many reasons to choose IIT Jodhpur to build a career. A few salient ones are:

Scholarship through teaching-learning and research-creation drive us. Faculty Members pursue their own teaching and research interests. IIT Jodhpur invested significantly and acquired state of the art material characterization sophisticated instrumentation.
IIT Jodhpur has chosen to make select impactful technological contributions to the nation. This umbrella technology development approach involves end-to-end work of Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students with backgrounds in Sciences, Humanities & Social Sciences, and Engineering. The select domains include:
Arid Zone Technologies: Solar Energy, Water, and Smart Buildings;
Critical Technologies: Materials, Components and Systems;
Health Care Technologies: Diagnostic devices, and Biological solutions to health care; and
Automotive Technologies: Commercial Vehicles
In July 2014, IIT Jodhpur launched all new Industry Immersion B.Tech. Program - a flagship technical educational program that will enable IIT Jodhpur Students and Faculty Members to keep meet the needs of Technology Industry and Nation. It is a blend of classroom instructions in Academia and shop floor experience in the Industry, through immersion inside the Technology Industry. Learning-by-doing, experiential and cooperative learning, working on live assignments under the tutelage of industry professionals, and engaging faculty members and students in joint R&D projects with Industry, are some of the key features of Blended B.Tech. Program. This model is being actively considered for Masters and Doctoral Programs also.
Jodhpur is secluded adequately from the burden of a megapolis or a metropolitan city and hence offers the much needed quiet to do focused academic work. Also, the city of Jodhpur is itself an active tourist city that is friendly, but quiet.
IIT Jodhpur is working towards a state-of-the-art permanent campus located ~20 km away from the center of the city.
City of Jodhpur is not a big city. With just about 12.7 Lakh Population ( a sizeable part of it is through Military and Paramilitary Forces), the city is calm and friendly. One striking feature of the city is that there is No Traffic Jam at any time of the day in any part of the city!!
Jodhpur is well connected by air and trains to Delhi and Mumbai, and by train and road to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Udaipur, Jaisalmer, and Ahmedabad.
The city of Jodhpur has a number of other prominent academic and R&D organizations in addition to the Jai Narayan Vyas University (formerly Jodhpur University). These include:
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur,
National Law University, Jodhpur,
National Institute of Fashion Technology, Jodhpur,
Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, Jodhpur,
Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur,
Footwear Design and Development Institute, Jodhpur, and
Defence Laboratory, Jodhpur (DRDO).           Of these, the first six are all new, and there are opportunities for appointment of Spouse of a Faculty Member, based on his/her qualifications and relevant experience.
Jodhpur is a city of Lawyers and Chartered Accountants. Especially with the High Court of the State of Rajasthan located in the city, Jodhpur has ample professional opportunities for spouses with backgrounds in these subjects.
Some things we do for our new Faculty Members
The Institute will:

Provide transit accommodation, immediately on arrival;
Reimburse
Telephone bills up to Rs. 1,500 per month,
Medical expenses of self and dependents,
Education allowance for first two children up to Class 12, and
Relocation expenses up to Rs.1.5 Lakhs from any place in India or abroad;
Offer
Research Initiation Grant within the initial period of joining, up to Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty Members in Sciences and Engineering, and up to Rs. 5 Lakhs to those in Humanities and Social Sciences; and
Cumulative Professional Development Allowance of Rs. 3 Lakhs once every 3 years;
Contribute towards New Pension Scheme of Government of India;
Reward up to Rs 10,000/- per month for three years for INSA Young Scientist and INAE Young Engineer awardees; and
Facilitate soft loan.
Please Click Here for a PDF version of this section.





Home
People
About Director
Contact
Welcome image in Office of Director

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to The Office of Director
The Office of the Director at the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is the central hub of leadership and governance, responsible for steering the institute towards its mission of excellence in education, research, and innovation. Our mission is to uphold and enhance the institute’s core values, ensuring the highest standards of academic and operational integrity.

The Director provides visionary leadership, setting strategic priorities and fostering a culture of continuous improvement and academic rigor. Our office oversees the implementation of policies, strategic planning, and resource allocation to ensure that IIT Jodhpur remains at the forefront of technological and scientific advancement.

We work closely with faculty, staff, students, and external stakeholders to promote a collaborative and inclusive environment. Key initiatives include advancing interdisciplinary research, expanding global partnerships, and enhancing the overall student experience through comprehensive support services and state-of-the-art facilities.

The Office of the Director is dedicated to fostering innovation and entrepreneurship, supporting initiatives that translate research into real-world applications and societal benefits. We also prioritize sustainability and social responsibility, integrating these principles into the institute’s strategic framework.

Our commitment to excellence is reflected in our continuous efforts to attract and retain outstanding talent, provide cutting-edge infrastructure, and cultivate a vibrant intellectual community.

Director Of IIT Jodhpur
Director Of IIT
Professor Avinash Kumar Agarwal took over the charge of Director, IIT Jodhpur on 1 May 2024. He obtained his Undergraduate Degree in Mechanical Engineering (1994) from Malviya Regional Engineering College, Jaipur and his MTech (Energy, 1996) and PhD (Energy, 1999) from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi. After his Post-Doctoral Fellowship (1999 – 2001) at the ERC, UW, Madison, USA, he returned to India in 2001 and joined IIT Kanpur. He was a Visiting Professor at the University of Loughborough, UK; Photonics Institute, University of Vienna, Austria; Hanyang University and KAIST, South Korea. Prof. Agarwal is interested in research in IC engines, combustion, conventional and alternative fuels, Methanol/ DME/ Hydrogen/ HCNG fuelled engine development, LCA and TCO analyses, Fuel sprays, Lubricating oil tribology, optical diagnostics, laser ignition, HCCI, particulates and emission control, and large bore engines.

He has developed laser-fired hydrogen and CNG engines in automotive sizes and developed the first electronic fuel injection system equipped with a locomotive engine for Indian Railways. Currently, Prof. Agarwal is developing Methanol and DME-fuelled engines/ vehicles for the automotive/ agricultural sectors. 

Read More





Home
People
Downloads
Contact
Welcome image in Administration

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to Office of Administration
The Office of Administration at IIT Jodhpur ensures the efficient functioning of the Institute’s administrative ecosystem through its various divisions/activities directly or with the help of Professor In-Charges (PIC’s) given as follows:

 Establishment (Non-Faculty) - Managing service matters related to non-teaching staff.

 Non-Faculty Recruitment – Handling end-to-end recruitment processes for non-teaching positions.

 Health Center – Ensuring quality healthcare services for the campus community.

 Campus Security and Transport – Overseeing campus safety and transport logistics.

 Logistics and Facilities – Managing day-to-day campus services, infrastructure maintenance, and operational support.

 Green Cell – Driving sustainability initiatives and environmental stewardship on campus.

 Visitor’s Hostels and Allied Services – Coordinating hospitality services for guests, visitors, and campus events.

 Internal Audit – Ensuring internal controls, compliance, and financial accountability.

 Store and Purchase – Managing procurement processes and inventory control for efficient resource utilization.

 Administrative Manpower Hiring for the Project.

The office functions with the aim of ensuring transparency in the process, efficiency, accountability, and excellence.

Working closely with different offices/sections, the office aims to deliver high-quality and timely services. It also frames and implements policies to foster a responsive culture to support institutional goals in education, development, and the well-being of the campus community.

Dean Of Administration
Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari-Dean Of Administration
Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari

Email : doad@iitj.ac.in

Phone: 0291 280 1032

Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari assumed the office as the first Dean of Administration (DOAD) of IIT Jodhpur on 15th June 2024. DOAD position was created in 2024 as part of administrative reforms for efficient functioning.

Prof. Tiwari is currently Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering. Prior to joining IIT Jodhpur as a faculty member in 2011, Prof. Tiwari had worked as a Postdoctoral Fellow in School of ECE at Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, USA, for 3 years (2008-2011). He had done his Ph.D. from EE Department, IIT Bombay from 2003 to 2008, during which he had also worked at NTU Singapore for about 7 months. Prof. Tiwari is a Senior Member of IEEE and serves as selected member of technical committees on “Flexible Electronics and Displays” and “Electronic Materials” of IEEE Electron Devices Society. Prof. Tiwari was Visvesvaraya Young Faculty Research Fellow of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India, for 2018-2023. He was part of Indian Delegate to attend Indo-German Frontiers of Engineering Symposium in Bremen, Germany (2022) organized by Alexander von Humboldt Foundation and Department of Science and Technology, followed by CONNECT Follow-up Programme Award by Humboldt Foundation and IGSTC-CONNECT Plus Award to visit and work in Germany in 2023. At IIT Jodhpur, he leads the Flexible Large Area Microelectronics (FLAME) Research Group, with focus towards biodegradable electronics. He was recently conferred with “Institute Award for Research Excellence-2024, Senior Researcher Award (Engineering)” from IIT Jodhpur. He has co-authored over 170 research articles, including more than 85 in journals of high repute with many in IEEE, ACS, and Wiley Journals.

Read more





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
Home
About IITJ
Institute
Vision and Mission
Vision and Mission
 Vision
A future-driven institute for nurturing excellence of thought; creating, preserving, and imparting knowledge; and using transformational technologies/interventions with a multidisciplinary approach for responding to societal challenges and aspirations.



 Mission
Foster humanitarian values, passion for learning, and creativity in faculty and students
Move towards a high-quality, futuristic educational and research ecosystem
Develop socially responsible faculty, students, and future leaders, committed to creating a self-reliant India
Catalyze a professional internal culture, along with enabling infrastructure and ancillary services
Forge effective national as well as international collaboration and partnership with industry and academia for diverse purposes and activities.


 Goals
Curriculum: To assimilate balanced, broad-based, as well as specialized education in all curricula with opportunities for different kinds of students and their interests.
Pedagogy: To establish systems for dynamic development, implementation, and evaluation of futuristic pedagogy, including blended-hybrid teaching and experiential learning.
Research: Have a globally engaged research ecosystem with state-of-the-art facilities in place, for attaining leadership in research on academic, social, national, and industrial fronts while capitalizing on emerging and in-demand opportunities.
Outreach: To be the Institute of Choice for a lifelong learning journey of working professionals, alumni, and the community.
Institutional Collaboration: Have an efficient platform in place for forging impactful partnerships with academia, research institutes, business organizations, civil society, governments, and other agencies across the world for contributing to larger goals for humanity.
Industry Connect: Ensure ease of collaboration with industry for joint research/ projects, IPR development, technology transfer, and encouraging entrepreneurship/ startups, along with efficient supporting infrastructure and systems.
Financial Plan: Set up innovative resource mobilization mechanisms and expenditure management systems, embedded in the internal budgetary processes, to have ample resources/ funds for actualizing the institute’s vision and goals.
Infrastructure: The institute will have secure, evolving, futuristic digital and physical infrastructure and ancillary services to meet all its needs, along with knowledge infrastructure for supporting learning and enabling skill development.
Student Life Cycle: Students will find at IIT Jodhpur (i) a vibrant learning environment, with opportunities for excelling in curricular, co-curricular and extracurricular activities, (ii) an effective career development process for their successful initiation to the professions of their choice and (iii) a strong linkage with alumni through regular interactions, support for their lifelong learning and professional development; and enabling their active participation as a stakeholder in the affairs of the institute.
Agile Organization: Ensure that IITJ continues to be an agile organization for both stability and dynamism as a network of teams with a people-centric culture that operates through fast but considered decision cycles, which are enabled by technology, and guided by a powerful common purpose to co-create value for all stakeholders of the institute.





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Home
About IITJ
Institute
History
History
Way back in 1946, visionary leaders in the country conceived the idea of establishing Higher Technical Institutes to support post-war industrial development in India. A committee, headed by Nalini Ranjan Sarkar, recommended the establishment of these institutes in various parts of India. The first Indian Institute of Technology was founded in May 1950 at Kharagpur. Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, at the first convocation of IIT Kharagpur in 1956, clarified in his address that these institutes of technology would help meet the technological challenges of the nation.

During 1959-1960, four IITs were established at Bombay, Delhi, Kanpur, and Madras. Subsequently, on 15 September 1961, the Parliament of India passed an act known as the Institutes of Technology Act, declaring IIT Kharagpur as an institute of national importance. Also, IIT Kharagpur was given the status of an autonomous university. Thereafter, IIT Guwahati started in 1994, and the then University of Roorkee was given the status of an IIT (now called IIT Roorkee) in 2001.

The establishment of eight more IITs across the country began with a decision of the Cabinet, which was announced by the Minister of Human Resource Development on 28 March 2008. IIT Bhubaneswar, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT Hyderabad, IIT Jodhpur (earlier called IIT Rajasthan), IIT Patna, and IIT Ropar began functioning in 2008, while two others, IIT Indore and IIT Mandi, commenced their sessions in 2009.

During the past decades, since 1956, IITs have become a hallmark of quality technology undergraduate education internationally, attributed largely to the ambience of quality academics. The endeavor at IIT Jodhpur is to uphold this brand image, which has been meticulously built over the last 60 years, with a renewed focus on producing world-class, technology-driven graduates who will contribute to the nation's development.





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
Home
About IITJ
Infrastructure
Sustainability Policy
Sustainability Policy
The unique master plan of IIT Jodhpur conceptualizes the workings of all parts of the campus as an interlocking, integral network of complex dynamic systems, like the metabolism of a living organism.

This meta-system shall be actively studied and monitored (partly to generate intelligent control instructions and partly to mine data) and, in that sense, is a settlement evolving through trials and tests, a “Living Laboratory”.

The ideas for this “Smart Intelligent Eco-campus” encompass the ideals of social, economic, and environmental sustainability, and integrate aspects of landscape and biodiversity, food, water, and waste, solid waste, mobility, energy, and ICT to create an intricate life-like system of campus metabolism

Landscape
Berms act as signature bounding elements containing compact desert settlements. They mitigate noise, dust, and heat, and are part of the de-desertification strategy along with green buffer zones, green infrastructure, compact settlement patterns, and east-west streets.

This campus is a sustainable oasis in a challenging desert context, providing a protected habitat for flora and fauna (including humans). It rejuvenates the site by providing biodiversity corridors to allow native species to have contiguous habitat and passage across the site and within the region than being isolated in island sanctuaries in a human settlement.

The landscape plan aims at minimizing its water requirement by using recycled water. The campus uses hardy native species of plants, conserving water and improving soil moisture, while requiring little upkeep and easy disease management.

The landscape is designed to absorb stormwater even during extreme rainfall incidents and prevent erosion or flooding.

The landscape provides open space for interaction between students, faculty, local communities, artists, etc., and for art installations and public spaces, and also suitable green cover for parked vehicles.

Water
In this extremely water-scarce area, all the roof/ surface runoff is stored in cisterns. The campus can be made a zero water-demanding campus by storing all the runoff from areas on the ground in large cisterns so as not to merge with the saline aquifer (which cannot be tapped due to its being located in a distressed zone). Therefore, while a possibility, the targeted zero-water regime is proposed to be modified to create a very low water regime as below.

The water consumption of this campus is reduced notably with efficient fixtures, semi-automated irrigation systems, native plantation, extensive recycling and reuse of sewage, rainwater harvesting, storage and recharge, and encouraging a low water lifestyle.

Taking into account the treated water recharge for some seasons and increased rainwater recharge, this campus is a net-zero water campus. Over a period of years, as soil moisture improves and salinity of the aquifer reduces, the remainder white water needs may also be met by groundwater, thus making it an autonomous zero-water-demanding campus, provided groundwater extraction is allowed in the future.

The rainfall management system creates a very large storage capacity of roof runoff for water security.

Waste
This campus will create a zero solid waste regime by segregating waste at source and managing each stream appropriately so that the mixed waste for landfill is eliminated.

The campus will create positive value for recyclables such as paper, glass, reusable plastics and metals, isolates hazardous wastes (chemical or biological) for specialized disposal by certified recyclers, and stacks e-waste and the small quantity of mixed waste in stores for specialized disposal by progressively establishing the new Research Cluster for e-waste and mixed waste recycling and increasing this recycling capacity on site.

Energy
The energy consumption of this campus will be reduced notably with passive and traditional techniques of building integrated with renewable energy technologies, with compact building clustering, and by encouraging a low-energy lifestyle. The buildings shall be some of the most energy-efficient and low-resource-consuming buildings globally. Use of a double wall system with thermal insulation in between and at the rooftop shall reduce the heat load and reduce the energy consumption by ~20%

The spaces provide adaptive conditioned comfort for nearly all habitable areas while minimizing energy and reducing water.

Mobility
The campus segregates motorized, non-motorized vehicles (NMV), and pedestrian movement for a mobility system that provides safety, with better health and quality of life.

It demonstrates a compact development with access to all facilities within a 10-minute walk or cycling trip, and to non-motorized public transport, with adequate parking and external road connections for conventional vehicles.

Community Engagement
Traditional building techniques and skills are used to develop the structures. There is a provision for crafts and design workshops with the local community, training in modernized local building technologies, taking inspiration from traditional heritage and methods, with a fusion of traditional craft and material with futuristic systems. The Institute shall engage in interactive workshops for communicating intentions and outreach projects.

All the above features make this a near-zero emission campus, planned to provide flexible and phased expansion of all the relevant services.

Sustainability Investment Policy for IIT Jodhpur
 (135KB)





Home
About IITJ
Administration
Academics
Admissions
Resources
Research
Students
Faculty
Home
About IITJ
Infrastructure
Campus Infrastructure
Campus Infrastructure
IIT Jodhpur has shifted to its sprawling state-of-the-art residential permanent campus on 852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 62 towards Nagaur, N-NE from the center of Jodhpur. The permanent campus has 3 parcels of land. The Institute is finalising plans for adopting one of for harvesting technologies. This new campus has been planned meticulously and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep...

The foundation stone for the permanent campus was laid on 16 April 2013 by the Hon. Union Minister for Human Resources Development (Government of India), Dr. M. M. Pallam Raju. The Permanent Campus of the Institute is being constructed. Work to build Phase 1 of the campus began in March 2015. When complete, it will be the first fully planned technical institute campus in India. More importantly, it will be an international exemplar of sustainability with strategies for ensuring NET ZERO ENERGY, WATER, and WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are:

Walking campus, which is pedestrian-oriented and bicycle-dominant;
Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with a wireless ICT backbone (including multimedia-enabled learning spaces with flexible, shared public spaces);
Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant buildings and GRIHA LD benchmark campus (including dense desert settlement morphology, low height buildings (up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low embodied energy materials, and improved local and traditional methods);
Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection from dusty wind to arrest erosion, desertification, and building up soil moisture over time;
Rainwater harvesting, water reduction, and sewage recycling, together green the site over time; and
Segregated wastes and customized recycling
Gateway Building Welcoming to the Academic Area!!
Presently, the campus has housing for Faculty Members and Officers. Construction of houses for Staff Members is underway. Also, development of buildings for Kendriya Vidyalaya IIT Jodhpur (up to Class XII), Bank, Post Office, and Market are planned. And, it will have a Primary Health Center with hotline connections to reach the top hospitals of the city, like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, and a fully equipped ambulance service. A large parcel of the Permanent Campus (of about 182 acres) is set aside for the development of a TECHNOLOGY PARK to strengthen institute-industry interactions.

3-storey Residence on Permanent Campus
The first migrations into the campus took place during May-July 2017.

Important links
CCCD @ IITJ
Recruitment
Correspondence
RTI
Tenders
Techscape
Contact
Old Website
NCCR Portal
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Donations
Web Policy
Web Information Manager
Feedback
CERT-IN
Help
NIRF
Internal Committee
Intranet Links
IIT Jodhpur Facebook Page
IIT Jodhpur Twitter Page
IIT Jodhpur You tube Channel
IIT Jodhpur Instagram Page
IIT Jodhpur Linkedin Page
G20 India 2023
75 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF)
Vidya Lakshmi Fulfilling Educational Aspirations
National Commission for Women (NCW) Helpline
National Anti-Ragging Monitoring Agency
india.gov.in National portal of India
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation, IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)

For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM.

Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM
arrow_downward