IIT Jodhpur Home Page
  A+ A A-   

   Sitemap
Home
Admission
FAQs
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Bachelor of Technology
Welcome image for Btech program

Previous
Nextpause
B.Tech. Programmes at IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur offers eight B.Tech. Programmes, namely,

 	1. B.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering)	 
 	2. B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)	 
 	3. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)	 
 	4. B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)	 
 	5. B.Tech. (AI and Data Science)	 
 	6. B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering)	 
 	7. B.Tech. (Materials Engineering)	 
 	8. B.Tech. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering)	 
 	9. B.Tech. (Electronics Engineering)	 	 
 
For details of Curriculum please visit the page and Program Structure click here .

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES OF IITJ: CURRICULUM FOR A GLOBAL ENGINEER
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is committed to educational excellence through a strong student-focused educational experience and to provide quality education with the contemporary and highly professional curricula. In order to achieve this objective, IIT Jodhpur has undergone thorough curriculum change in the year 2019 and came up with a new curriculum. This article highlights philosophy ingrained in the new curriculum and some salient features.
 
The societal challenges of the 21st century are profound and wide-ranging. Basic needs such as energy, food and water, housing, mobility, and health will become even more acute as the world population exceeds 9 billion. The demands for sustainable development will require redefined and innovative engineering talent and leadership. The emergence of a connected, competitive, and entrepreneurial global economy, in which successful engineers increasingly need technical competency and professional skills that differ from what worked in the past. These reasons build up a clear case for disruptive revision of the undergraduate curriculum.
 
Some of the attributes expected of modern engineers are:
 1.	 Flexibility to understand and manage rapidly evolving technologies;
 2. 	 Ability to identify, define as well as solve problems;
 3. 	 Proficiency in theory and applications;
 4. 	 Skill for handling out-of-the-box engineering challenges;
 5. 	 Capable of Creative Thinking;
 6. 	 Experience of entrepreneurship;
 7. 	 Understanding of public policy implications.
 	 
Today the creative function of engineering is expected to be viewed and understood in the broader context of the new patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines obliterating traditional boundaries between science, humanities and social sciences, arts and engineering. IIT Jodhpur has pursued a newer structure of programmes in addition to classical programmes to address these opportunities.

Objectives

The objective of the new curriculum is to define a novel instructional paradigm and content plan to address modern demands of professional education (as outlined above) based upon the philosophy of outcome-based education. The curriculum builds on four guiding principles of outcome-based academic, i.e., 

 1.	 All students can learn and succeed but maybe not on the same day or in the same way  

 2.	 Each success by a student breeds more success (success must open up the opportunity of more success)

 3.	 Academic institutions create and nurture the conditions of success

 4.	 The academic system acknowledges and respects challenging initiatives without fear of failure.

Unique features of the UG curriculum

Unique features of the undergraduate curriculum are highlighted next:

The curriculum emphasized the fundamentals of basic and engineering sciences to enable learners to have a broader multi-disciplinary perspective for the specialisation being pursued. Departmental courses focus on fundamental scientific principles behind technologies.
Avenues created for pursuing co-curricular and extra-curricular creative interests as an integral component of the curricular content by introducing nongraded courses on social connect, performing arts, and communication skills. As an outcome of these pursuits, a student is expected to improve their capacity to imagine and to build up enthusiasm to pursue unknown territories through purely creative ventures.

Early design courses are introduced which focus more heavily on conceptual design methods and less on discipline-specific artefacts. These courses teach that design is open-ended; that there are numerous engineering challenges beyond domains of traditional disciplines, and that students could begin to think and work like engineers.
Avenues created for making students continuously engaged in these intellectual processes throughout the curriculum and at an increasingly sophisticated level through design credits. Such continual integrative experiences help students to expand and deepen their “internal knowledge structure” of the discipline, which will aid their eventual retrieval and use. 
Opportunities and challenges continue to require engineers to literally invent the future by developing breakthrough technologies that solve global problems and enhance the quality of life. Entrepreneurship education has been introduced in the curriculum as a minor which gives them solid experience in product design and development, prototyping, technology trends, and market analysis

Options of Department Area Specialisation and five-year B.Tech.+M.Tech. allows students to pursue in-depth study of the topics of interest belonging to the programme. Department Area Specialization in Engineering Innovation has also been introduced with the aim of making students Industry Ready by offering five months Practical Project jointly with an Industry or R & D organization. Students get real-world experience working for an industry or R & D organization on a project that complements their academic experience.
With the rapid change in the contours of engineering education due to emergence of Miniaturization, Parallelism, Smart Materials, Bio-mimetic Systems, AI and Cognitive Systems, the role of engineering institute is not only preparing students in their major areas of study but also on other skills to encourage interdisciplinary teams to address challenges faced by the society. The emphasis has been laid on the development of technical skills in interdisciplinary areas and upcoming fields by introducing various Interdisciplinary specializations such as AI, CPS, IoT, Robotics, Smart Healthcare, etc.
With evolving patterns of knowledge creation across disciplines and obliterating traditional boundaries between science and engineering, a capability linked Double B.Tech. with second degree in Engineering Science is introduced to pursue newer structures of programmes in addition to classical programmes to provide ability to apply diverse knowledge and skills flexibly in novel situations.

 With changing paradigms of Evaluation and Assessment, the performance of students in a course is evaluated not only thorough examinations but also on a continuous basis which include but not limited to interaction in the classroom interaction, quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects. Technology-enabled aids have been assimilated into continuation evaluation as an integrated component. 

The finer granularity in grading has been introduced to allow for more precise and fairer grading, provide a more reliable indication of student performance, and give students a better opportunity to improve their grades.
Throughout the curriculum Efforts have been laid down at building up Strong Foundation, Enabling Continuous Learning, Inter-disciplinary Breadth, Design Thinking, Imbibing Creative and Critical Thinking, Social Responsibility and Professional Ethics, and Sustainability as distinct thematic Commitment.



Home
People
Details
Academic Calender
List of Programs
Contact
More
IIT Jodhpur
Office of Academics Affairs
Home
Details
B.S.
B.S.
New BS Programs
S.No.	Program Name	Action
1	BS (Physics) with Specialization	View
2	BS (Chemistry) with Specialization	View



Home
Admission
FAQs
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Master of Technology
Welcome image for pg program

Previous
Nextpause
Master of Technology Programs
 	1.	M.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering)
 	2.	M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
 	3.	M.Tech. (Artificial Intelligence)
 	 
 	4.	M.Tech. (Cyber Physical Systems)
 	5.	M.Tech. (Sensors and Internet of Things) Discontinue from AY 2026-27
 	6.	M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences)
 	 
 	7. 	M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
 	8.	M.Tech. (Thermofluids Engineering)
 	9.	M.Tech. (Materials Engineering)
 	 	 
 	10.	M.Tech. (Chemical Engineering)
 	11.	M.Tech. (Environmental Engineering)
 	12.	M.Tech. (Energy Infrastructure)
 	 	 
 	13. 	
M. Tech (Communication Systems)

 	14.	MTech AR VR
 	15.	Robotics
 	16.	Quantum Technologies
 	17.	Bridge Engineering
 	18.	Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies



Home
Admission
FAQs
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Master of Science
Welcome image for pg program

Previous
Nextpause

Master of Science Programs

 	1.	M.Sc. (Chemistry)
 	2.	M.Sc. (Mathematics)
 	3.	M.Sc. (Physics)
 	4.	M.Sc.(Digital Humanities)
 	5.	M.Sc. (Computational Social Science)



Home
Admission
FAQs
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Doctor of Philosophy
Welcome image for pg program

Previous
Nextpause
Doctor of Philosophy Programs

Core Sciences

 	1.	Ph.D. (Chemistry)

 	2.	Ph.D. (Mathematics)

 	3.	Ph.D. (Physics)

 Engineering Sciences

 	1.	Ph.D. (Biosciences and Bioengineering)

 	2.	Ph.D. (Computer Science & Engineering)

 	3.	Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering)

 	4.	Ph.D. (Mechanical Engineering)

 	5.	Ph.D. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)

 	6.	Ph.D. (Chemical Engineering)

 	7.	Ph.D. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering) 

 Inter-disciplinary Areas

 	1.	Ph.D. (Robotics and Mobility Systems)

 	2.	Ph.D. (Digital Humanities)

 	3.	Ph.D. (Quantum Information and Computation)

 	4.	Ph.D. (Smart Healthcare)

 	5.	Ph.D. (Space Science & Technologies)

 Schools

 	 Ph.D. (School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science)

 	 Ph.D. (School of Liberal Arts)

 	 Ph.D. (Management and Entrepreneurship)

         Ph.D. (Schools of Design)

 Centers

 	1. Ph.D. (Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development -CETSD )

 	2. Ph.D. (Center for Education Technology -CET)

        3. Ph.D. (Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics)

        4. Ph.D. (Center for Internet of Things (IoT) & Applications)

        5. Ph.D. (Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy)

        6. Ph.D. (Center for Technology Foresight and Policy)

 

Home
About ITEP at IIT Jodhpur
Curriculum
Admissions
Faculty
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Integrated Teacher Education Programme
Home page image for ITEP 3

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome To The Integrated Teacher Education Programme
The Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP), as envisioned by the National Education Policy, 2020, offers a unique opportunity for the IIT ecosystem as a whole to directly contribute to shaping the next generation of leaders. IIT Jodhpur is proud to announce the commencement of ITEP (BSc-BEd) for Secondary Stage with Major in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics from 2024.

The Secondary Stage (classes IX to XII), which represents a critical point of transition between school and higher education, deserves special attention in the Indian context. The significant challenges at this stage include the issue of retaining students in the school system, streaming them according to their innate potential and interests, and preparing them to acquire the necessary technological and discipline specific exposure for future academic and career choices.

The Jodhpur Model of Teacher Education envisions the all-round development of the Graduate Teacher for the Secondary Stage who will have (i) strong technological, pedagogical and content knowledge (ii) motivation for self-improvement and self-organization (iii) commitment to constitutional values and fundamental duties (iv) strong ethics and values (v) passion and drive for innovation in teaching (vi) effective communication skills (vii) dedication to lifelong learning, and (viii) empathy for students and commitment to their well-being.

Proposed Jodhpur Model of Teacher Education: Vision of the all-round development of a Graduate Teacher for the Secondary Stage

Applications for the NCET Examination 2026 are open from 12 February to 10 March 2026. For more information, visit https://exams.nta.nic.in/ncet/
Message From The Director

Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal

Director, IIT Jodhpur

Greetings from IIT Jodhpur!

The most significant challenge for the transformation of school education is the absence of qualified and competent teachers. It is estimated that India has a shortfall of more than 10 lakh school teachers. The National Education Policy 2020 reminds us that teachers are critical to the goal of nation-building, and achieving a just and prosperous society, rooted in our cultural values and civilizational history. In this context, the new Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) is a vital step that we as a nation will be taking towards building a new kind of education system. This will bridge the rich values, traditions, history and civilizational legacy of India with the futuristic potential offered by new technologies for sustainable, inclusive and enriching life on planet Earth.

The ITEP Program at IIT Jodhpur is an opportunity for all students who want to be the kind of school teachers who will make a difference in STEM education at the Secondary Stage. An important need of our nation is to equip learners in the age group 14 to 18 years with the necessary modern skills and competencies to participate in a rapidly transforming global knowledge ecosystem, shaped by disruptive technologies including artificial intelligence. Our present age requires creative solutions to pressing problems of human rights, sustainable development and global well being. This means thinking out of the box and moving away from traditional models of school education, which reward rote learning and kill the innate creativity of children.

My dynamic team of faculty members will work to create the next generation of teachers whose knowledge and pedagogy will free the creative imaginations of their students, leading to novel solutions for Viksit Bharat and global development. Excellence in disciplinary knowledge, cutting edge curricula, intellectual freedom and deep awareness of the local and national needs are the hallmarks of pedagogy at IIT Jodhpur. I believe that this ethos of the institute will equip school teachers who are passionate about teaching and learning. We want to develop teachers who possess a strong sense of respect to Fundamental Duties, faith in constitutional values and pride in our Indian ethos. This will give them an energy to work passionately and tirelessly to understand and solve problems at the local, national and international levels.

We invite you to be part of this journey as we develop a ‘Jodhpur model’ of teacher education that will advance the pursuit of knowledge, wisdom and truth in the nation and the world at large! I have faith that this will be an unforgettable journey for everyone involved in this process.

Program Objectives
To ensure that future educators are equipped with the skills, especially in the area of science, technology, and pedagogy, which are required to adapt to evolving educational needs, the objectives of the 4-year Integrated BSc-BEd Program (ITEP) for the Secondary Stage at IIT Jodhpur include:

Developing necessary competencies in graduates for teaching at the secondary stage of school education (classes 9 to 12) (as envisioned by NEP and NCTE Curriculum Framework, p.18)
Capacity building in the area of Science & Technology Education in India
Developing pedagogical skills among teachers in India
Enabling technology integration in the classroom for future learners of India
Building connection with the society and inculcate the required communication skills
Expected Graduate Attributes
After completing this programme, the graduate would have:

A deep understanding of educational theories and principles, suitable for teaching at the secondary stage of school education (classes 9 to 12) (as envisioned in NEP and NCTE Curriculum Framework, p.18)
Training in attributes specific to teaching in Grades (9-10) and for Grades (11-12)
A comprehensive knowledge of the subject to be taught
Skillset to integrate technology into teaching to enhance learning experiences
An understanding of various forms of assessments to measure student progress
A commitment to continuous professional development
A commitment to build positive connections with the surrounding society through their teaching practice and model this to their future students by example

The ITEP is being coordinated at IIT Jodhpur by their Center for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) and has involvement of faculty members across various disciplines. Know more about the CETE at iitj.ac.in/cete .

Credit Structure

The distribution of credits for the programme across 4 years is as follows. 

Source
Of Course
Criterion
Course 
Component
Total Credits
Course
Category
Credits
Per
category
Year 1	Year 2	Year 3	Year 4
Sem. 1	Sem.2	Sem. 3	Sem.4	Sem. 5	Sem.6	Sem. 7	Sem. 8
NCTE
Curriculum
Framework
An induction programme at the start of each year	Non Graded
Science Major
72
Specialization Compulsory	48	12	12	12	12	-	-	-	-
Specialization Elective	24	-	-	-	-	12	12	-	-
Foundations in Education
31
Programme Compulsory 	28	3	-	4	4	-	4	6	7
Open Elective	3	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	3
Ability Enhancement & Value-Added courses	28	Programme Compulsory 	28	7	7	2	-	3	-	4	5
Stage-specific content -cum-pedagogy	16	Programme Compulsory 	16	-	-	4	4	4	4	-	-
School Experience	22	Programme Compulsory 	22	-	-	-	-	3	2	12	5
Community Service 	2	Non-Graded	2	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	2
IITJ
Recommended
Design and Computational Thinking	3	Programme Compulsory 	3	-	3	-	-	-	-	-	-
Design Credit Project	2	Non-Graded	2	-	-	-	2	-	-	-	-
Total Credits	176	176	22	22	22	22	22	22	22	22



Home
People
Program
Schedule
Registration
Faculty
Testimonials
News & Updates
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
Office of Executive Education
Home
Program
Program Portfolio
Program Portfolio
The Office of Executive Education at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur plays a pivotal role in providing advanced, flexible education to working professionals in various high-demand technical fields. With a mission to bridge the gap between industry requirements and professional expertise, the office offers a wide range of programs, including Online M.Tech, Postgraduate Diplomas (PGD), Postgraduate Certificates (PGC), and specialized certification courses. The emphasis is on providing accessible, high-quality education that aligns with the evolving needs of industries such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data Engineering, Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality (AR/VR), VLSI, and more.

Online M.Tech Programs: The online M.Tech programs are a key component of IIT Jodhpur's Executive Education offerings. Designed to cater to working professionals, these programs offer the flexibility of online learning while maintaining the rigor of traditional on-campus courses. By focusing on cutting-edge technologies, these programs equip students with skills that are highly valued in today's fast-evolving tech landscape.

Online M.Tech in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Online M.Tech in Data and Computational Sciences (DCS)
Online M.Tech in Remote Sensing and Mobility (RMS)
Online M.Tech in Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality (AR/VR)
Online Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS)
Online M.Tech in Data Engineering (DE)
Postgraduate Diploma (PGD) Programs

The PGD programs at IIT Jodhpur are designed for professionals looking to gain specialized knowledge in fields like Data Engineering, Omics Technologies, and AI. These programs are shorter than M.Tech programs but focus intensely on practical applications, making them highly valuable for professionals aiming for specific career advancements.

PGD in Data Engineering (PGD DE)
PGD in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
PGD & Certificate in Next Generation OMICS Technologies and Applications
PGD in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing (DECC)
Postgraduate Certificate (PGC) Programs

The PGC programs are shorter, more focused courses aimed at professionals looking to enhance specific skills in areas like Omics and Data Analytics. These programs allow professionals to upskill quickly without committing to longer-term academic programs.

PGC in Data Analytics (DA)
PGC in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI & ML)
Online MBA Tech Program (2024)

In 2024, the launch of the MBA Tech program in 2024 marks an important diversification of IIT Jodhpur’s offerings, blending technology and management education to create leaders capable of driving innovation in tech industries enrolling 96 students.

The Executive Education programs at IIT Jodhpur have proven successful in addressing the growing demand for high-tech skills among working professionals. Through a combination of M.Tech, PGD, PGC, and the newly introduced MBA Tech programs, the Office of Executive Education continues to expand its reach and impact, providing valuable education that aligns with industry requirements. As IIT Jodhpur continues to grow its executive education portfolio, it will play an increasingly important role in shaping the careers of professionals and advancing the technological capabilities of industries across India and beyond.

Featured Programs

S.No.	Programme Name
1	Executive M.Tech in Data and Computational Sciences (DCS)
2	Executive M.Tech in Robotics & Mobility Systems (RMS)
3	Executive M.Tech in Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality (AR/VR)
4	Executive M.Tech in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS)
5	Executive M.Tech in Data Engineering (Stackable Programme transition from Post Graduate Diploma in Data Engineering)
6	PG Diploma in Data Engineering (DE)
7	Executive M.Tech in Artificial Intelligence (Stackable Programme transition from Post Graduate Diploma in AI)
8	PG Diploma in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
9	MBA Tech
10	Post Graduate Certificate in AI&ML
11	PG Diploma and PG Certificate I and II in Next - Generation OMICS Technologies and Applications (Certificate Program I) and (Certificate II)
12	Online BSc. Program in Applied AI and Data Science

View All Programs

Academic Calendar

Academic Calendar BS / BSC ( 174 KB)
Academic Calendar PG-Certificate/PG Diploma/MBA-Tech (Trimester Model)(AY 2025-26) ( 151 KB)
Academic Calendar PG-Certificate in Machine Learning and Artificial (AY 2024-25) ( 140 KB)



Home
About SME
Programs
Admissions
People
Students
Corporate
Outreach
COE-IP
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Home
Admissions
Master of Business Administration
IIT Jodhpur
Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process

IIT Jodhpur
How to Apply

IIT Jodhpur
Fee Structure & Student Intake

IIT Jodhpur
CAT Cut-offs

IIT Jodhpur
FAQs



Home
People
Academics
Students
Admission
The Design Pod
Placement
Contact
IIT Jodhpur
School of Design
Home
Admission
Masters of Design (MDes) 2025
Masters of Design (MDes) 2025
Overview
The MDes programs at the School of Design, IIT Jodhpur combine creativity, technology, and innovation to equip aspiring designers with the skills and industry exposure needed to push the boundaries of design. Whether you’re passionate about immersive experiences in XR Design or pioneering smart products for the future, this program provides the tools and expertise to bring your ideas to life. The School of Design, IIT Jodhpur currently offers two MDes programs: XR Design and Smart Product Design.

MDes in XR Design
The MDes XR Design is a pathbreaking program in the emerging area of Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality (MR), and Virtual Reality (VR) experience design that addresses the growing need of the industry to create useful, engaging, and socially relevant experiences that extend the real world or live entirely in the virtual, in areas such as healthcare, entertainment, and education.

MDes in Smart Product Design
The world around us is undergoing a dramatic transformation. We are increasingly interconnected, with a growing number of everyday products evolving into intelligent companions. The MDes in Smart Product Design is crafted to meet the growing demand for professionals who can create innovative, user-centric products that harness the power of smart technology. This program is designed to bridge the gap between cutting-edge technologies, user experience (UX) principles, and design methodology. We aim to delve into the world of smart products, from connected devices to AI-powered systems, learning to design seamless interactions that not only leverage technology's power but also enrich people's lives. This program is ideal for aspiring designers who are passionate about innovation and eager to push the boundaries of physical and digital experiences. As the world embraces smart technology, the demand for skilled designers who can create user-centered, intuitive, and intelligent products is skyrocketing. The MDes in Smart Product Design will prepare future designers to be leaders in this dynamic field, shaping the future of how we interact with the world around us.

Contact
Office of the School of Design

Phone: 0291-280-1782 (between 10:00 AM and 05:00 PM on working days)

Email: office_design@iitj.ac.in



Home
People
About
Internship
Eligibility
How to Apply
Documents Required
Updates and notifications
Contacts
IIT Jodhpur
Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ)
Suraj welcome image

Previous
Nextpause
Welcome to the Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ), IIT Jodhpur
An opportunity to engage in mentored research with IIT Jodhpur faculty, explore advanced laboratories, and gain hands-on project, technical, and research experience.

IIT Jodhpur has a provision for direct admission to the meritorious B.Tech. students from NITs to pursue Ph.D. at IIT Jodhpur. In order to provide a prior exposure of the state-of-the-art research labs of the different academic units at IIT Jodhpur, the institute has launched a summer internship program “Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ)” from 2025 summer onwards. The following are the main highlights of of the SURAJ.

Opportunity for NIT students to join PhD program at IIT after BTech./B.S./M.Sc.

Offline Mode For Easy Access State-of-the-art research facilities

Poster Session and Oral Presentations and Best Project Certificates

Stipend of Rs.6000/- per month for maximum 2 months

SURAJ offers an opportunity to gain research experience with distinguished faculty from IIT Jodhpur. Applicants are advised to explore the faculty profiles and research areas available on the IIT Jodhpur website before submitting their preferences for project mentors. Applicants can visit the IIT Jodhpur website to explore the faculty’s research areas and prioritise mentors according to their interests. They may contact faculty via email with a well-crafted SoP and resume, clearly demonstrating their willingness to learn and potential contribution to the faculty's research.

Departments Offering Internship in the IIT Jodhpur

Departments
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Chemistry Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Mathematics Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Physics
Schools
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
School of Design

School of Liberal Arts

School of Management & Entrepreneurship 
Research Centres
Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development (CETSD)
Center for Education Technology (CET)
Center for AIoT and Application
Center for Technology Foresight and Policys (CTFP)
Manekshaw Centre
(MCOENSSR)
Medical Technologies
Center
Center for Digital Health
 Rules that will be followed during the internship at the IIT Jodhpur
The selected interns will be required to adhere to all the rules and code of conduct of IIT Jodhpur during the internship programme.
Important links
CCCD @ IITJ
Recruitment
Correspondence
RTI
Tenders
Techscape
Contact
Old Website
NCCR Portal
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Donations
Web Policy
Web Information Manager
Feedback
CERT-IN
Help
NIRF
Internal Committee
Intranet Links
IIT Jodhpur Facebook Page
IIT Jodhpur Twitter Page
IIT Jodhpur You tube Channel
IIT Jodhpur Instagram Page
IIT Jodhpur Linkedin Page
G20 India 2023
75 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF)
Vidya Lakshmi Fulfilling Educational Aspirations
National Commission for Women (NCW) Helpline
National Anti-Ragging Monitoring Agency
india.gov.in National portal of India
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation, IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)

For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM.

Last Updated : 17 Mar 2026 - 10:33 AM
arrow_downward️